
Final Fantasy XV FAQ/Walkthrough by codebreak1337
Version 424.0, Last Updated 2017-01-20
Table of Contents

    Final Fantasy XV : Main Story
        Chapter One :
        Chapter Two :
        Chapter Three :
        Chapter Four :
        Chapter Five :
        Chapter Six :
        Chapter Seven :
        Chapter Eight :
        Chapter Nine :
        Chapter Ten :
        Chapter Eleven :
        Chapter Twelve :
        Chapter Thirteen :
        Chapter Fourteen :
        Chapter Fifteen :
    Side Quests :
    Hunts :
    Weapons :
    Attire :
    Spells :
    Techniques :
    Skills :
    Summons : 
    Items :
    Vehicles :
    Bestiary :
    Classic Final Fantasy :
    Video Guide / Extras
    Story Analysis ( Major Spoilers )

Americanhardcoregames@gmail.com
- Supercodebreak -
- FFXV Track of the Day - Final Fantasy VII   - Staff Roll - 

- Added in Classic Final Fantasy Section - Current Game - FFX
- Thank you all for the recent comments and views especially " Amazing work! " -

- I noticed this guide is doing pretty well with views! If you are enjoying it and would like another guide like this one. Let me know by sending me an email with a suggestion it is appreciated and thank you again everyone! - Thanks to joyaudouin for the recent email! -

+400KB EDITION+

 
Final Fantasy XV : Main Story
Chapter One :
The Pauper Prince :

Start off the game by controlling an interesting and cryptic introduction. After the opening scene, you will be near the throne of your father the king. You are to be wed to a woman of the opposing country of your kingdom. The game has a very past tense final fantasy theme here. I feel the developers truly did implement many of the story ideas from the earlier final fantasy games.  It reminds me a bit of Final Fantasy 4 with the kingdoms and their kings. The twist is that it is still a modern day world. It seems they have taken the best of both sides of Final Fantasy throughout its gaming history.

You will be accompanied by 3 other friends that seem to be a royal guard. Gladiolus the big guy, Ignis the smart looking man with glasses. and Prompto the smaller cherish type. The king seems deeply concerned before you leave and walks back to you before you go with a look of compassion towards his son. Next thing you know you and your guard are on the road and the Regalia your amazing vehicle has broken down from the very long trip. You will get out of the car and have to push it with your friends. The beautiful scenery and song "Stand By Me" comes on as we gaze upon to the stars. Personally in awe and wonder of the legend that is Final Fantasy and what awaits us in FF XV.

Eventually, you will reach hammerhead rest stop after the cut-scene. You will meet the gorgeous Cindy,granddaughter of Cid the mechanic. Cindy will help you out if you can do her a favor as well. She will send you on a short fetch quest to start. It is simple enough by heading to the marker. Return to Cindy and you will receive the next Main Quest.
The Hunter Becomes the Hunted :

Cindy will tell you to find her friend Dave. Dave is a hunter and lives a tough life to survive. Apparently, he has been missing for some time. This is another marker quest. However, I would like to state some things about the battle system because you should be encountering enemies at this point. Firstly, there are tons of weapons in this game. Many of them have different attributes and different times you should be using them to get highers scores. Higher scores result in more Experience points after resting. The Frame rate of the game seems very choppy at first, especially in battle. This is true but it is only a minor gripe. The game is still immensely fun do not late the FPS rate scare you off.

I suggest starting off with the basics for this quests. You will learn more as you go along in the game, unlock abilities and become more interested overall. For now, stick with just holding the main attack button which is CIRCLE on PS4. Get used to that for a bit on the enemies. Later we will talk a bit about the warp attack. Once the enemies are cleared and you have found Dave, return to Cindy at Hammerhead.
Mutant Marauder :

After returning to Cindy, talk to Dave. He will set you up with the next main quest. This quest calls for defeating a creature in the wilderness. It will teach you about how to blindside your enemies for extra damage. To blindside effectively you should try and free roam during battle. Try mixing up between using the lock-on feature and not using it at all. When you get a nice range behind your enemy and go in for a warp strike from behind for extra damage. Warp strikes are performed by locking on and pressing triangle button on PS4. However, they consume MP or magic points. Have potions available to refill your MP if needed. Note early on you shouldn't need much MP.
The Errand Prince :

After helping out dave you may want to take on a few hunts for more EXP and GIL. Gil is the game's currency. You should also check out other sections of this guide. We will have a complete list of collectibles in the game including car collectibles and decals. At this point for the main story, Ignis is the only one who can drive the Regalia. Go in the Regalia and don't forget to fuel up. Take a long drive all the way to Galdin Quay. Once there, watch the cutscene with an interesting man that will toss a coin at the Prince. From there you will realize the man is telling the truth, the ferry is out. Walk down to see for yourself and you will meet Dean. Talk to Dean to open up the next part of the main quest.
A Gentleman's Agreement :

After talking to Dean he will give you a challenging fetch quest. This one will show sneak mechanics a bit in combat. Sneaking in combat is effective to restore HP ( Hit Points ) and MP ( Magic Points ) It can also save your allies lives. Head to the marker and get out of the car. Continue towards the mineral logos on the map. Once you approach the map marker near the mineral icon there will be the Giant bird from earlier in the game. The Giant bird beast will be sleeping, we must sneak past it to get the minerals without it waking up. Just trek slowly and stay as far away as possible while still keeping in range. When you get the Minerals the bird will fly off regardless. Head back to Dean for your reward and the next quest. 
Ill Tidings :

You and your party will get a good nights rest in a fine hotel in Galdin Quay. When you wake up however ,Ignis has a paper in his hand with terrible news. The Kingdom has fallen and your father is dead. This is a very good and emotional part of the story. All characters voice acting and expressions are spot on including Noctis especially. I suggest not skipping this cut-scene or this entire quest. We decide to go back to see the kingdom for ourselves. Get in the car and drive all the way back to the Kingdom Of Insomnia. 

Imperial Soldiers and Magi-tek are everywhere. There is rubble on the ground and soldiers are spawned across the entrance to the Kingdom. We must work our way around to find out what has happened and if it is true. Fight your way through some Soldiers and later some Magi-Tek using all the skills we learned at this point. Now would be a good time to get a closer look at allies techniques. Press L1 to use a technique they are powerful ally attacks. Use them wisely and we will cover each in depth in the TECHNIQUE section of this strategy guide.After you clear out the soldiers you will get a phone call from the Marshall, Cor. Cor tells you this is all true and encourages you to head back and meet him in the next quest.
Chapter Two :
Legacy :

Meet Cor's agent near the Prarie Outpost northwest of Hammerhead station. Talk to the woman there then head for the marker which is  a tomb. I was around level 10 at this point. You should be around the recommended game level or you might have a large amount of trouble dealing with some of the enemies along the way of the quest. Once you get to the tomb talk to Cor the Immortal who is the Marshall of Insomnia and a potent ally in our quest. Cor will tell you about the Royal Arms, inside the tomb is the first one. Acquire the Sword of the Wise a mythical weapon only usable by Kings. See our Royal Arms and Weapons section for more detail. After you acquire the weapon leave the area and head for the next marker.
The Power of Kings :

We will be heading for the next Royal Arm. This time there will be some fights and battles along the way. Make sure to do some hunts if you are low on levels at this point. See our hunts section as they can grant you experience points and procurement items as well as other interesting finds. Once you are ready simply head a bit north east of the First Royal Tomb. The Problem is that this area will be filled with Imperials and they are pretty tough to take them all down right now. Try sneaking past most of them and just dealing with the wildlife for now.

You should see a red brick icon on the map. This is the marker point and our destination. Right near it will be the Bioblaster machinery weapon on a large boulder before the entrance. Pick it up as it is a truly awesome weapon. Afterward, head inside the cave and get ready to explore. This area is tight with narrow corridors. I suggest powering on the generators and taking your time here. It is actually a very enjoyable little dungeon the best thus far for me. You can find the auto-crossbow here as well which is located near the Fire Energy icon on the map. Be sure to try and open all doors you can and cover the entire map. Even after you acquire the royal arm weapon, Axe of the Conqueror you should choose to explore the rest of the cave. You should notice a strange door that may be interesting later if you crouch beneath a crevice near the Royal Arms door. Also, note to pick up the procurement items littered on the ground in this dungeon.

Eventually, you may run into a level 12 Arachnid beast. She can be kind of tough so you may want to use your potions here. Along the way, you may have to acquire some power-up potions. Also remember your meals, The meal meter is at the bottom of the screen  and is shown in various attribute icons. You should always have a meal before going out on a big journey. The tougher the journey may be the better the meal you should eat. Whether it be cooked by Ignis at camp or purchased at a restaurant. Finally once you acquired the next royal arms, leave the area as I proposed you do before manually. 
Declaration Of War :

This quest can be hard to locate. You should definitely see the marker easy enough, however, The female agent is actually hidden in a tight crevice near the marker. Be on the look out for it near the exclamation point area. Once you find her talk to her and heard towards the next marker point. We are going for scale an attack against the Imperial troops. This is where the action picks up a bunch. It is fun combat based and Cor with his awesome Katanas and Lion's Roar technique will join the party. Once again eat a meal before this and be an appropriate level. There will the first true boss battle at the end of the quest as well as tons of tough Imperial Troopers.

I like going with the sword of the wise in my load-out here. It's non-MP consuming warp ability is very useful for the troopers that are above you. There will be quite a few that you're going to have to warp to. It would be "wise" to use the sword of the wise to conserve the MP. Afterward, if your health is too low use some potions or the basic warp with another weapon. I do not recommend machinery here as it is harder to aim the basic shot which usually aims down for me at least. You should be using a magic spell, preferably lightning which is what the Imperial troops and the boss should be weak against. The Sword of the Wise and if possible the Axe of the Conqueror or the Masamune if you have it.

This boss looked great and I was a bit terrified at first when it started launching explosive magma fused homing rockets my way. The Magi-Tek armor also will have a group of imperial troops that spawn with it. It is weak vs lightning attacks being mechanical. It can also be knocked down and when it is that is when you should follow up with the Axe of the Conqueror. Use a lightning spell to start and make sure to hit all the enemies including the Magi-Tek. Then you should unleash your tech-bar on the boss and if it goes down follow up with the Axe Royal Arms weapon on it. I was level 12 around this part of the game and after learning how to avoid its missile tactic it was a very simple battle. 
Burden Of Expectation :

Prince Noctis will receive a phone call from Iris Gladioulus sister. She and some other refugees have escaped Insomnia alive and are staying in Lastallum. Head to Lastallum by car and note that Imperial troops will be on the look out for you. This is a level 10 quest but the troops are usually around level 16. Wide-area effect spells will take them out quite nicely especially Blizzara. You should save your game before and during the ride in this case. You may also want to pick up on some side quests I was around level 20 When I decided to do the next quest and you should be too because it can get tough. Do as many low-level quests as you can to get around 18-20 level with Prince Noctis. Once you reach Lastallum look around , eat and then check out all of the shops. In a bit, Iris will take us on a short tour. Head to the hotel to meet Iris and a few other refugees save your game get some rest to complete the quest.
* A Stroll For Two *

This quest will start automatically, however the choices you make may impact the game later on. This is most likely the romance section of the game. You will take a walk with Iris around Lastallum. I chose to be nice to her and I was gaining more experience for those choices. For now, stick with my path and do the right thing by her. You will learn the area as well as enjoy the character development.

When you get back you will meet an Old man and his grandson. The grandson will tell you about a tale of a sword inside a waterfall. This is the only tip we have to where the next Royal Arms may lie. Get some sleep and something to eat. Stock up on new weapons at the shop we passed by with Iris on the stroll. If you are low on gil do the Vyv Photography quest. See side-quest section for more information.
Sword in the Waterfall :

This is a pretty long ride and you don't want to be stuck here at night where the monsters are more powerful. Get some sleep and definitely, spend a little bit extra Gil on a good meal this time. This next level is quite tough. As I mentioned early be at least level 20. When you arrive near the destination by car you should be at a parking stop. Get out and head down the stairway. Turn right and you may run into what look like the Midgar Snake from Final Fantasy VII. This giant snake should be avoided for now and turn right past it. Right past that snake is the waterfall, avoid the crab enemies as well and run for it. There are a few procurement items nearby you may want to pick up on the rocks. After getting the items head into the waterfall.

This cave is tough dark and cold. Save your game often here and you will thank me later for it because the Ronin enemies can kill you fast even at level 20. I suggest saving after every time you kill a Ronin enemy there are 2-3 of them. There is also an arachnid enemy after you sidle across the first wall and up the path. If you go through the whole dungeon you will find some rare crafting items. I suggest saving because I lost all of my stuff after dying and you don't want to explore the dungeon and kill all the enemies twice or even three times.

Once you are done looting the area you may also be lost at a point or two. The first thing to note is the LIGHT BLUE lines on the mini-map. This indicates a sidle point. Click PROCEED at this point and sidle across. If you do this you are heading in the right direction. For your magic spells or elements be sure to craft FIRE spells specifically fire spells with healing. You may also want several doses of them. Always cast these at the enemies here and try and nail them all at once. I would also equip the Flame Tongue sword as most enemies here are weak to fire. Ronin enemies are especially tough so use your spells and try to time your Tech Bar skills on them. Also be sure to use your blocks and parries.

Once you near the end of the dungeon you will get into another tough battle with Mind Flayers. I got to say here the battle system is the best in the Final Fantasy series. These Mind flayer enemies mess up your control scheme so you basically are the next level version of confused rather than just stars swirling around your head like the old time games. In this case, you should try and focus on the Mind Flayers first. Once again saving spells and using them as often as possible. I really can't suggest a good weapon here. I used the Flame Tongue and axe of the Conqueror while Prompto had the Bioblaster. This is nice because these enemies can be poisoned. Also don't be afraid to use your Elixir's and and Hi-Elixir's here. We are getting more Gil as we go along and the car supports the buy feature so stock up before the dungeon. Once the Mind Flayers are dead go and grab the next Royal Arms.

You will gain the Armiger meter here ( more details later ). Also, you will acquire the swords of the Wanderer. These are 2 swords that combine together to wield a double-edged staff. It is a pretty neat weapon. Finally, there will be another one of those strange doors at the end of the level. However, It is of no use to us right now. If you explored the entire dungeon choose to leave after acquiring the arms then head back to town.
Chapter Three :
The Way of Gods and Kings :

This Simple quest that just has you talking to your friends and allies about what happened and where to go next. You will get another headache during this time and they show the godly titan figure. The party suggests we take a look at the disc to see if we can find anything. Upon heading outset we meet that strange man who gave us the coin in Galdin Quay earlier by "coincidence". He offers to drive you to the disc and the party has no choice but to watch each other's back and follow the man. Choose to drive yourself if you would like and get into the Regalia for the next quest.
A Dubious Drive :

Another easy quest, you are just going to simply drive behind Ardyn "man of no consequences" and follow him to the next parking spot towards the disc. A few tips are to slow down and watch when he is about to turn I didn't lose him but I did crash so be careful following him and use your break when necessary. Once you reach the town he will camp out with you and your friends in the Caravan and even be in some photos and the level up screen. Upon waking up you will note you have acquired the whistle. ( see items section ). Finally we will set out one more ride to the disc.
Onward to the Disc : 

Continue following Ardyn as we did before without crashing. It is cut and dry just follow him until you reach the blockade which Ardyn will open and leave it to Noctis and his party from that point. Keep driving all the way to the Marker until you must get out of the Regalia, be careful along the roads. Once you get out walk all the way down to the large rib cage of bone and you will notice a tomb is there of the Royal Arms. You will acquire the Blade of the Mystic a powerful two-handed Royal Arms sword. Shortly after a headache will come and the Titan tremors will begin the next chapter. Enjoy the cutscenes and get ready for Chapter #4.
Chapter Four :
The Archaean :

After some awesome cut-scenes. you will be in a very hot area with fire all around you. Prince Noctis loses Ignis and Prompto and it will just be the Prince and Gladiolus. There is some very nice dialogue in this segment of the game between Gladiolus and Prince Noctis. It is interesting and well done and you will gain a temporary boost to your strength if you answer Gladiolus with the right answer. When he ask if you're a King or not respond with yes and you will earn a 50% bonus to your attack. Also there is a large amount of fire element here you won't need it much for this upcoming battle but you may later so stock up those magic flasks. Eventually, you will reach Audience with the Titan.

The Trial Of Titan :

A Really amazing segment of the game with an even better music selection and theme for the battle. You will start off running from the Titan. Learn how to conserve your stamina and you can even roll to dodge the Titan punches. Eventually, you will end up having to battle with the Titan. With the Riled perk from Gladiolus conversation, we are going to deal more damage. It is pretty easy to block the Titan prompt crush then follow up with a counter attack. His other punches are not so easy. If you can't dodge them too well take a potion when low on health. When his arm is vulnerable follow up with the Axe of the Conqueror or the Sword of the Mystic as they are the two most powerful weapons.

The team will meet up and come up the  blizzard strategy. At this point, you can deal a large amount of damage to Titan in a certain amount of time. If so you will gain more experience and XP. I suggest having the Regroup technique on Ignis if you're low on health.The Piercer is also a good option for Prompto as it only uses one tech meter bar.Finally, Gladiolus may be best with a shield equipped here and for this entire chapter although I have not tested out the effectiveness. Once the blizzard comes the Imperial troops will start blasting at the Titan as well. Things get easier from this point, the Titan will fall down more often and eventually his arm will break off. The area will be tumbling down and you are saved oddly enough by Ardyn and the Imperial airship. You have again no choice but to follow Ardyn or you will die so the group decides to do so. Afterward, you will be stranded near the Chocobo area with no Regalia.
Chapter Five :
 The Hexatheon's Blessing :

After being stranded near Chocobo Wiz Station you will soon encounter a mysterious spirit. The area is in a dark cloud and storms are raging all over the area. The woman will give Prince Noctis information on where to go next. Map markers will pop up on the screen but before any of that, you should unlock Chocobo friends by defeating Dead Eye. To do this talk to the man that runs the Chocobo farm and gives out the hunts. He will inform you of Deadeye. To start the quest you must go to the hunt screen and select the Dead Eye hunt which is a Level 15 battle. You're doing this because it is a very long walk in-between each of the Hexatheon blessing markers. The Chocobo's are not only fun but will save you plenty of time. They can be leveled up and will gain both combat and field abilities.
Boss : Dead Eye ( Hunt )

Dead Eye might be tough if you are low level. I was around level 24 for this and it was quite easy. You're going to have to first get to the lair marker. Afterward, you must sneak to find his den. Be careful not to get caught here or you might have to restart from your last save. Take it slow, stay behind the rocks and keep a nice distance away from him. It is easy enough to get to his den. Once you are inside the den there will be tons of voretooth bristles to pick up. You should be sure to collect them along the way, they are great for elemancy crafting. Once you reach the end of the den there will be several explosive barrels. It is hard to use these barrels as I am not sure if you can auto-lock on them. You will gain more AP if you can blow up the barrels on Dead Eye and also damage the beast much more easily. However, it is easier said than done at least for me. Once again be around level 25 and you should take him down no problem. if you're having trouble then go for the barrel tactic.

Now we can ride Chocobo's be sure to rent them for a few days at a time. The counter is on the upper right part of the screen. They are pretty cheap so a few days is a good idea just in case you get stuck somewhere. You don't want to be without both car or Chocobo in this huge world. From that point, you're going to hit 2 markers and then eventually the Dungeon which is the Trial of Ramuh get ready and save your game. Any problems just contact me on youtube by checking the video playlist at the bottom.
Trial Of Ramuh :

Once you hit the first two runestones you will be able to access the dungeon for the final one. Get on your Chocobo and head for the map marker dungeon. Save your game before you go inside. I was around 25 character level with Prince Noctis for this area. Stock up on potions and procurement items and don't forget to eat a powerful meal. I found this dungeon to be easier than the previous ice dungeon with fewer paths to take as well. I didn't find many items of interest while exploring other than some crafting materials. If I missed something let me know or I will update this section on my next run through the game.

The Naga enemy could potentially be a tough opponent and she has some interesting dialogue about her baby. However, I took her down easy enough with basic attacks and spells. There is another strange door in this area,save that for later in the game. Touch the runestone a little bit after the Naga mini-boss and you will acquire the Ramuh key item which can Summon Ramuh in times of great peril. You may exit the dungeon at this point. You should save your game eat a meal and rest up the next area is somewhat tough.
Engaging the Empire :

This is the end of the chapter and quite a few interesting things happen here. I encourage you not to skip the cut-scenes. We are going to have to infiltrate the base very solid snake like. It is not as hard as you may think and it is actually quite fun. You can warp strike soldiers from behind for a one shot kill. It is a simple lock-on then R1 button push. You will also be informed when to do so for the most part. If you're having trouble you may want to use an item called a reflex enhancer, you should have one or two in your inventory now. I didn't scan the entire area well for the moment so there may be something I missed. Appreciate anyone giving me the information so I can add it here earlier.

When you finally reach the giant Mag-Tek mech warrior a problem or two may arise. First to take out the imperial forces and the mechanoid you should get on the Turret. It is located behind the Mech as well as a Gatling gun turret in front of the mechanoid. Do this and blow up the explosive barrels on the imperial forces if you can for more AP. I suggest staying behind the turrets for the entire battle. You may want to use the rocket one which is better for destroying the Magi-Tek Armor. The Major issue that I found was taking out the sniper. There may be more than one. You might have to warp kill the sniper like I did as well. Best advice is to scan the entire area if the marker doesn't go off and you can't access the Regalia. Most likely a sniper being alive is the problem. Once you killed ALL the enemies head to the Regalia and you will meet Lady Luna's big brother who doesn't like the Prince very much it seems. Ardyn also makes another strange appearance but you are left to fight a huge battle shortly after.

After the explosive barrels and heading back to the Regalia another huge wave of Magi-Tek armor mechs and imperial forces will show up. This time it seems there is virtually no way to win the fight. However, the favor of Ramuh is upon thee ! When you hear the music change and fire speckles float across the sky press the L2 button to Summon the Divine Power of Ramuh. He will obliterate all enemies with his might Judgement Bolt saving you and the party. This pretty much ends the chapter. Be sure not to get lost on the way out by going through the yellow gates we came in from. Loot the area if you would like as well and then head back to Lastallum. I suggest you do some side quest before starting the next chapter. When the game prompts you about the temporary point of no return, decline and begin some hunts, sidequests and other things to level up.
Chapter Six :
All Set to Sail :


Talk to Iris outside Lastallum market only if your ready to hit a small point of no return. I was around level 35 for this line of quests. If you want it to be a breeze I suggest doing some hunts and getting up to level 35. Once you are ready talk to Iris and begin driving the car to the destination. Along the way, you will come to a decision to stop at Malmalam Thicket. If you're close to my level at 30-35 then I would head there. If not you can continue on with the quest and save Malmalam Thicket for later.

If you choose to head to the Malmalam Thicket dungeon, it is a long walk so have a Chocobo rental. This is good because Iris never rode a Chocobo before and should help with her friendship or romance saga. The path is rather linear and there aren't really any enemies too tough at a 30-35 character level. Eventually, you should run into the Thunderbolt two-handed sword on the ground and the camp site. Stock up on all elemental energy, most importantly lightning energy. Make some magic flasks that do Lightning damage, using Ether is a good option. This way you can have 3x Lightning dual cast with a potency of 99 or next tier for the boss Bandersnatch. Once that is completed get the Royal arms and return back to the road.
Imperial Infiltration :

Once again the party will be stopped along the roadside. This time we must Infiltrate an Imperial base because of a vow of the crew and Prince Noctis for the death of Jared. Iris will stay safely in the town for now, get some sleep and something to eat, than leave in the morning. Rent a Chocobo if you can after nearing the destination by car. It is a long walk and you may get stuck near the pipes and end up at dead ends before actually being able to survey the base. Use your map and common sense to make sure your not going into a dead end. Look for a spy tower and that should be where the marker is located. Once there you can survey the area, the group will devise a plan and spilt up leaving you with Ignis.

Note that we must not kill the target, so basically don't kill anything or you will have to restart. The game resets back to the start point, you don't have to reload a save if you lose. The trick is going through it once or twice and you realize you have to be one step ahead or behind the target. This makes the target move, if you stand still the target may not move from his location. Towards the end don't forget about your warps. Finally when Ignis gives the signal to Prince Noctis, take down the target with a fast warp strike. Shortly after battle will initiate and you will have to handle it. I was around level 35 here once again so it wasn't hard at all for me. If your a lower level you may have problems and hopefully enough gear to make some powerful magic spells.

Your going to do battle with Aranaea here, she is a top ranked soldier of the Imperial army and looks very cool with her Dragon Attire. Aranaea also has the Astor Spear which does the Highwind technique as a little hint. Use your magic flask and especially Blizzard or ice spells on Aranaea and the Imperial troops, it works great. Stopcast and circular saw combination could prove to be useful as well. Remember to get the counter attack off of Aranae which is actually pretty simple, this leaves her wide open to tons of damage and attacks. Once she is down you will be informred that hunters have taken our new captive and he has managed to escape from them. This leaves us to fight him another day but is a considered victory for Prince Noctis and Insomnia.To close the quest and the chapter head back to Iris at the marker and finish a longer than expected ride to Cape Caem. Once at Cape Caem you will meet Cindy and be informed of your next objective.
Chapter Seven :
Party Of Three :


We have to find some Mythril to get the ship sailing and then bring it to Cid. This makes us have no choice yet again to take the assistance from Ardyn. Not only that we will now be accompanied by the boss we just faced Aranaea. This is a great segment and dungeon, Aranaea is awesome ! She has a  great set of gear and attire as well as the awesome spear. Aranaea also has the Highwind Technique. Once you are ready to enter the dungeon, note the two merchant soldiers. One sells some weapons and the other will sell some procurement items. You can only head into the dungeon at nightfall. If you wish to do this talk to the guard to pass the time to night.

Once again I was still around level 35 for this dungeon and it was very simple in the combat sense. You can get a bit lost in here if you don't realize that the floors crumble and lift at times. Be sure to use the tiles on the floor as markers to where you have been. You will encounter Skeleton and undead type enemies here. I am not sure just yet what the skeletons are vulnerable too, however, I should be doing a bestiary on this game right here in this guide so stay tuned. I got to admit the Skeletons look amazing ! The lich enemies are tough and look even better and you gotta love Flan enemies. Finally, the shadow bombs and fire bombs are ace as well.

Two mentionable encounters here would be the Iron Giant and the dual Lich fight. The lich battle can be tough so I really suggest saving some magic for them. I didn't want to get killed and have to restart the dungeon like I did with the Ronin earlier on in sword in the waterfall quest. I made a nice Quadcast blizzara potion with high potency. To do this I mixed around 70-99 fire elemental in a magic flask then added in my Mega Phoneix. I suggest doing this one to enemies weak vs blizzard.The two Lich went down very nicely, however, Iron Giants are weaker against fire i think.Regardless, you really want to save the elemancy for the two liches. Shortly after the Lich fight is the big boss of the dungeon and you may need elemancy here as well so have whatever you find in the dungeon stored. Do not let elemancy resources go to waste ever.
Quetzacoatl :

I wish I had more to say about this boss. First I was really hyped, as I thought he was Valefor and the next potential summon. I even thought there would be a nice reward for beating him. Beyond that, I thought he would put up a good fight. I didn't get any of that other than the fact that the monster design is excellent. I was level 35 at this boss battle and he got obliterated when Ramuh came way too soon. This worries me as to if I will ever have a good boss fight in this game due to the summons. I guess you could just not press the summon button. In that case, it would annoy me because of constantly seeing the on-screen prompt. Hopefully, there is a way around this or something better in the future of the game. I will keep updated. For now , the tacticis to summon Ramuh and have some high potency magic. 
A Precious Source of Power :

When you finish the battle Aranaea will leave the party, this still leaves us a party of three without Gladiolus. Head out of the area and back to Lastallum for the next objective. This is an easy and short quest and you will only be fighting a few goblins. Strap on your EXINERIS suit and head into the reactor. On the way there you will see another "hunter" wearing the exineris suit. He sounds just like Gladiolus and will assist you in the area. I was around level 37 here and once again really easy stuff you should get out of here no problem, just clear the enemies.When you are done you will get the Mythril component and we can now close this chapter. Before you do, I personally started doing hunts and side quests again to increase my level. Furthermore, you may want to look at the Malmalam side quest. It will give you another Royal Arms if you missed it earlier in this walkthrough. 
Chapter Eight :

This chapter starts in Cape Caem and is very short. Two major things to note here, the first is talking to Iris.She can mend your Moogle plushie and show you where the garden quest is. Next talk to Talcott which finally makes use of those Cactuar statues you might have been carrying. Inside the house where Talcott is and up the stairs on both sides will be two custom decals for the Regalia be sure not to forget them. When you're done you can just head for the marker and say your farewells. The game states it will be a long time before you return. This is true in sense of the story. Shortly after we will find a way to come back to Lucis and finish the quest, farming and just about everything else through the dog Umbra. For now meet Cid at the marker and take the elevator downstairs. You will meet Cor the Immortal again and take a look at the photo of your father,Cor,Cid and the unknown character for the moment. Cor apologizes for not being able to protect your father and it is quite an emotional moment in the story. Afterward, get on the boat and get ready for a long chat as this closes chapter 8 and chapter 9 is even more, story based. 
Chapter Nine :

Altissia, City on the Sea  :

Welcome to Altissia, city on the sea and home to the Leviathan. This is a huge part of the story so you may want to hold from hitting the skip cutscene button. After all the dialogue you may get lost in this area it is very much like a maze and things look similar to each other. You can ride the Gondolas to various points in the city. First, head to Mahgoo and talk to the 4th man in the picture from your father's journey. He will inform you of the situation going on in the city. Later the leader of the city will come talk to you and Prince Noctis must win her trust. However, you should get a hold of the map here because it's confusing. Try taking a walk around the town and enjoying it patiently. There is even a man at one of the restaurants that will buy Oracle Ascension coins from you in exchange for other goods. ( More info in sidequest section ). Noctis artwork by Stella974 on deviant art !

After going to Mahgoo I suggest getting a good night's rest and heading for the Hotel. When you do you will meet the strange mysterious spirit Geitianna again and she is with Umbra. Geitianna will give you the ability to travel to the past through Umbra. This is the stories way of letting us backtrack through the game to collect things we missed. You can access it by sleeping at any hotel/caravan other than the camp sites.You don't have to go back right now unless your low level. Once you hit at least level 35-40 I suggest you continue to the woman's office for the negotiation.
The Summit :

Head to the office and get ready to Negotiate with the female leader of the Annexed nation of Altissia. Choose every respectful option which is mainly the top choice. For the last choice, I selected the choice on the left. This can affect the story so choose wisely. If you complete it you will gain EXP and have an ally in the Altissia government Shortly after there will be a bunch of story stuff that I would not spoil for you,then the next part of the quest will begin.
Into the Fray :

After devising the strategy with your party, you will finally meet Luna face to face and listen to her speech. Soon after havoc will come with the Imperial army. You will be alone as Prince Noctis and work your way through some easy imperial troops that are around level 16-20. This is easy enough and short, albeit very entertaining with some great music. The Leviathan cutscene is excellent as well and the conversation between her and Luna had me glued to the television. Eventually you, Prince Noctis will have to prove yourself to the Titan, Leviathan. Empowered by Luna the Oracle get ready for the Trial of Leviathan.

Trial Of Leviathan :

This is very very easy to complete, however, it seems to be rather difficult to get a perfect rank on your report card. I also took a long time with this battle so if there is a way to speed it up with a higher score I will inform everyone soon enough. You will be empowered by the light of the Oracle here and you can now fly in the air. You can also use the Armiger as often as you would like for this battle. Honestly, i just kept mashing the circle button because I didn't have another good tactic to take down Leviathan. I suggest doing it although it sounds stupid. Switch it up with a warp strike every now and then so you can close in on the beast. It is a long fight and quite epic, I just wish there was more thought to the battle than mashing circle. I will try again on my 2nd play through to see if I can take it down getting all A's on our report card. After Leviathan loses you will gain her as a summon. This may end the first half of the game, however, you can travel back to Lucis and now Altissia through Umbra the dog when you rest as an option. Save your game and get ready for chapter 10.
Chapter Ten :

You may have noticed the game has shifted a gear at this point. This is considered to be the second half of the game. At many points, you will not even be able to return to the past through umbra. I was level 45+ for the next 3 chapters. I recommended nothing lower than that until we all learn more about the game. 

Get off the train and you can grab a meal at the train cart restaurant if you wish. After that simply take the elevator down and you will be at the Old Quarry which is the next dungeon. The game states that Ignis is walking slower and insist you walk slow as well. I found this was unnecessary, although you will get a few comments from Gladiolus and Prompto for running too far ahead. 

I noticed there are only really a few packs of enemies in this dungeon. I will give a full analysis on my second play through or better yet create a bestiary. For now, I would try to either have a nice amount of lightning and fire spells in my magic flask. There is a campsite nearby where you can sleep, save your game and cook for yourself. You can also fill up on some elemental energy here as well. Save the lightning spells for the dog type enemies in the green pools of slime. Try and group them together with a weapon like the Gravity well. Even Prompto's recoil is good at grouping enemies together so use that. If you don't have it you can acquire it with some AP in the ascension tree. 

The main objective of this dungeon is to power on the generators so we can make a path to the Royal Tomb. The problem is that it's easy to get lost. What i realized after hunting the map and getting lost is that the two backup generators lead right from the staircase near the main one. In other words, the first marker point generator that does not power on, to the right of that will be another staircase that leads to both generators. Another thing I noted was that the gated area, not the rails can be jumped over saving some potential backtracking.

Once the obstacle is out of the way you can head down the Quarry. This is where you will see a strange egg sac. Once it is activated we will fight a giant Malboro boss. These are typical Final Fantasy monsters which is introduced as a boss of this Dungeon. At our level it is pretty easy however, you must make in vulnerable twice. This means lowering the monsters health bar all the way two times. After the 2nd time, Ignis will devise a plan, this plan consists of Ignis throwing a fire spell down the Malboro's throat. It is now a usable technique. Lower the monsters health again and it should die this time with the help of Ignis. 

Open the Royal Tomb and pick up the Katana of the Warrior. A nice blade that is pretty fun to use. Watch the short cut scene which doesn't give you an option regardless of the game leading you to believe it would. Finally, you can return to the dungeon entrance and back on the train to start the next chapter.
Chapter Eleven :

Once again be over the recommended level when you start this quest 45+ I suggest highly. It is very action packed and  for the most part, you will be timed. Being a high level it seemed I was still cutting it close, but i made it through without dying once. You're going to be point warping a bunch and there will be a force of Imperial troops. Bullet-proof vest or bullet-proof suit is an option and a good one. The main objective is to first defeat the wave of Imperial troops trying to destroy the train and all the passengers. Afterward, a tank will come and have the same objective. Destroy that tank by warping to it as fast as you can. Finally, you have to take out 4 Imperial airships. To do this warp to each one and clear out the Imperial soldiers inside one by one. Quickly after warp out, because you will have around 8 seconds before the ship explodes on you. It is a very action packed quest and fun, the story starts getting very deep here as well so enjoy.

After all the Cut-scenes you will meet up with Aranaea again. This time she has become a Mercenary and has truly left what madness the Imperial Army has become. Aranaea is here to help the Prince and his friends. She instructs you to speak with Biggs and Wedge who are classic Final Fantasy characters. They will help ride the train for you and the crew to get to the Imperial City. Be sure to talk to the woman at the end of the map who will fill you in on more story. After that, you can visit the shops. One shop is inside the freight end of the parked airship. The other is to the right of that same ship on the floor level. Be sure to stock up on potions, hi-potions etc. Have at least 4 Mega Phoneix in your inventory. Also, try and head back to the past now and get 99/99 all elemental energy. In fact, it is an even better idea to get as many magic flasks with full potency as you can. If not you probably have a ton of healing items and procurement stuff at this point the game was pretty easy. You will be using them soon enough. Once your ready head for the marker get on the train and get ready for the ride.
Chapter Twelve :

Some really quality story stuff happens in this quest and another revelation. Don't skip the cut scenes it's well worth it. We will be riding the train towards the Imperial city when yet again danger strikes. The train comes to a quick halt and we must head out into the freezing cold. At this point, you will be swarmed by monsters. They are simple to take out at our level so I would save my spells for the nightmare that is chapter 13. 

After a few smaller enemies a huge Death claw mini-boss will appear. This is a great shot of the game by the way. If you look outside you can see Shiva who appears lifeless. She is huge and her face is obvious. Her hair hangs down and her arms are raised a bit, which is strange because it seems like the ice goddess has frozen to death ? She at least seems to be laying on her stomach also strange to me. Regardless defeat the Death Claw, he is pretty easy to get blind strikes on. Once the death claw is done head back inside the train and you will get the next summon. It is a great scene and I don't want to spoil it. Shortly after you will complete the chapter and be back in the Regalia. You will also acquire the staff of the oracle royal arms at this point.
Chapter Thirteen :

Things are much tougher when you are near the Recommended level in this game. I guess that's why it's recommended and I was finding this game easy. Well, at least it was easy up until now. You're going to acquire the Ring of the Lucii here. We already had it but this will be the first time we can actually use its awesome abilities. Also, this chapter is very long. Finally, there are 2 bosses to deal with as well as tons of enemies. 

First, we are stripped of all our powers and our friends. It's just Prince Noctis, this is why he equips the ring finally. This is great because the ring is absolutely awesome. It currently has 3 powers you can use. I am hoping for more *fingers crossed* The first is the circle or basic attack which is a life drain DEATH spell. SquareEnix did a wonderful job on this one. It feels so smooth on the control, the sound effects are Ace and the animation is over the top ! You actually see the death forming on the enemy. For example, they begin to wither away more and more the longer your drain them with the spell. If they die they eventually explode and you gain health every time you drain with the ring from the enemy.

Next is the Alterna spell, this one is extremely powerful but will eat ALL your MP ( magic power ). Save this one for the Iron giant near floor three. Also, save it for the horde of enemies at the end of the level. This is why the Magi-Tek booster potions from the items list start coming in handy. I tested it and you will not lose any MP. However if you don't have enough base MP you can't cast it until your MP is full again. It is uber powerful and an awesome spell.

The next arcana tops it off and this makes the combat mechanics of the game all synergize together well. If you press the square button or hold it with the ring of Lucii on it will drain tons of MP. This is called the Holy arcana spell, for every time you phase dodge while holding that button you deal HOLY damage to the enemy. It's awesome and fun to use. I feel this is just a great compliment to the royal arms weapons. SquareEnix really tried being original. It was a risk I think it worked in my opinion. So as A recap you're going to be having fun using this ring in this chapter until you realize there are 6 floors, two bosses and 3 hordes of enemies to fight.

To start you have to get the key cards then you must level them up at a station to clear the doors to scale the tower. It is all marker-based, the problem is that its long very long. So here's some tips. Save at every bed you find. Power goes out, dad shuts the tv off, your job calls you whatever you got that save point. You should explore the entire area, but it is not necessary. I explored most of it and I kept finding procurement items. I found a few medals which seem to be good for crafting strong spells. This option is up to you. I also found the Chobham armor which gives 30% bullet resistance. I will have the exact locations written in the accessory section / item section soon.

Remember the keys for your new item the ring. Circle - drain spell. R1 + Triangle and hold = Alterna ( death spell ). Hold or press square for the Holy spell on dodges. Note this will be the only way you can take out enemies until you reach the Sword of the Father which is the next royal arms. Once you acquire that weapon you can fight off enemies a bit better again. After reaching the top  levels of this tower, you will regroup with some of your friends. Shortly after the regroup you will fight the Foras demon we were avoiding earlier. He is a little tough at our level (47). You're going to be using some of those potions. Finally before all the story stuff to end the chapter we have the boss. I recorded the fight for everyone, enjoy. It is not the best tactic but it worked for me at level (47). Please bare with me I love this game and the series. I do not get games early I got it on release date at my local Gamestop. I am going as fast as I can and I appreciate you all reading. Enjoy and get ready for Chapter 14. 
Chapter Fourteen :

For the gameplay, all you have to do is run past the enemies. I don't think you can return to this point ever in the game.Check it out a bit while you can. The enemies are tough and I honestly am pretty sure the game expects you to just run through. Keep heading for the marker until you see a truck, that truck will pick you up. Remember this is 10 years later in the game and inside the truck is Talcott. Talcott will brief you on everything that has happened in the past ten years. It is a really good scene, he will then bring us back to Hammer Head. You will meet up with the crew, buy some weapons if you would like and then you can ask Talcott several questions about the story. All in all it is a short and sweet chapter based upon story to set us up for the Final Chapter. 
Chapter Fifteen :

It all comes down to this. I will be going over my thoughts on the ending, final battle and more at the very end of this guide to make sure nothing gets spoiled for anyone. Know that you can return to this point in the game and battle the enemies again at any time. You may want to run through to the marker in this case just to finish the story. Feel free to do so as it has no consequences. There may be one or two items laying around in the area right before the final boss, such as the tempered shield. I will have the items and gear listed with better locations in the gear section. Finally, there are 2 bosses to fight and they are awesome, the first one is a major surprise ! You should stock up on cold spells before the battle to make it much easier as a small tip. That is basically all I am going to say. It is straight forward and somewhat short in length. The two boss battles are excellent and long enough. The story end is amazingly well worth your finish. My level at games end ( - 56 - ) . 

 
Side Quests :

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scraps Of Mystery : 

This is probably the overall hardest quest in the game. Without having a game guide, there is no way to find all 14 maps unless you got extremely lucky or explored every nook of the entire game world. 

1. Longwythe rest area, right near the left white patio chair.
2. Prairie Outpost, near the parking sign behind the gate on some wooden boxes.
3. Northwest of the weaver wilds in Leide. There is some Leiden pepper to the north east and a treasure chest south west. It is right at the shack to the left.
4. Pass the Imperial guards first then grab the map piece in Ostium Gorge right near the Crestholm Dungeon entrance ( red barricade ).
5. Northeast of the camp near the three valleys. It is laying on some rubble underneath the water pipe.
6. Easy to find at the Roadside Scrapyard Parking space, next to the white car.
7. Wiz Chocobo Races area, near the Cylinder yellow top buildings.
8. Inside the huge shed at Cauthess rest area.
9. Near a giant boulder at Taelpar Rest area.
10.On the world map notice the Kellbass Grasslands text. From the "K" head south and you will find a structure. At the structure the map piece is laying inside a celled window.
11. Northwest of the Alpine Stable parking spot. You should see a gray doorless structure. Inside is the next map piece.
12. Behind the house with the red flowers at Melacaid Hunter HQ which is near the Vesperpool.
13. At the Cape Caem beacon/lighthouse. Ride the elevator up to the map piece.
14. Head south of Fort Vaullery. Look at the map and notice a Treasure icon. Southwest of that treasure icon is a burnt down shack. The map piece is at that location.

I will be updating the rest of this section when I collect all the pieces. They are all easier to find because of the exclamation point markers. After you find them all, remember "X" marks the spot.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cid Quests :

Cid's Quest will help you upgrade your mechanical weaponry. This includes machinery as well as base weapons with machine parts like the engine blade. He can make them more powerful if you find the items he requests. I suggest holding onto doing this quest as you just play through the game rather than hunting for them as there will be no markers.

---------------------------------------------------------------
. A Better Engine Blade .
. A Better Drain Lance .
. A Better Auto Crossbow .
. A Better Bioblaster .
. A Better Circular Saw .
. A Better Gravity Well .
. A Better Noiseblaster .
. A Better Drillbreaker .
. A Better Absorb Shield .
---------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Engine Blade Upgrades :

The Engine blade is the starting sword of the game. You can get the first upgrade by giving Cid a rusted bit. Rusted bit's can be found in the first dungeon by Keycatrich Trench north of Hammerhead. They become more common later in the game and even for sale at vendors. Rusted bit's also can be combined with elemancy to create a fail type spell.

The next Engine Blade upgrade comes from getting a Glass Gemstone. These are rather common later in the game. If you want to get one earlier, head to Cape Caem and circle around the back of the Lighthouse you should find one there. If not let me know I will update this section.

The Final Upgrade for the Engine Blade contains getting a Sturdy Helixhorn. This one is thought enticing so listen up. First head to Old Lastallum to get the hunt called Last of the Spiracorns Level 29. Once you acquire the hunt leave your car parked in Lastallum. Get on a Chocobo and head towards the camp site which is close to the hunt marker. Eat a bowl of mother and child rice, that I mentioned above, it may help. When you are ready go to the hunt location.

At the hunt location, there will be Duplicorns and smaller versions. The Duplicorns drop the Sturdy Helixhorn. There is a trick to making them drop it. You must attack the horn itself, this is considered the head appendage of the Duplicorn. To do this make sure to go to options, then combat. In combat select wait mode and exit ( you can change back at any time ). In wait mode, the game pauses and will analyze when you stop moving or lock-on. Target the appendage with your weapon and warp strike into it several times. If you see something that says break on the game screen, chances are you can acquire the sturdy helixhorn. To know for sure it will pop up on the battle screen. You can also see if the horn is broken off yet, by looking at the Duplicorn's head. It is really cool how in-depth the "circle" combat system can be. :)

Drain Lance Upgrades : 

The first Drain Lance upgrade is a common metal scrap these are very abundant if you pick up loot that shines blue all over the map. These blue shiny marks also respawn with different items at times. This keeps exploration more fun and you never know what you might find. Give it to Cid to upgrade the Drain Lance to II.The second upgrade for the Drain lance can be found off of a Coeurl enemy. This area is where we completed the Mind the Trap quest. Coeurls are level 32 here so you may want to be around 30-35 to take them out with ease. After you give it to Cid, wait a few days by sleeping or doing quests. Return to Cid and acquire what is stated the highest level Drain Lance at III.

Auto-Crossbow Upgrade : 

This upgrade passed me by a few times and I let it go. Sad because the auto-crossbow is a really good and attractive piece of machinery. There are several ways to acquire the needle. The easiest and fastest way is probably to go to Vesperpool and head to the treasure chest to the south. For me two chest spawned when I went searching. The chest we are looking for always holds a cactuar needle. Be sure to open multiple chest in the area by looking at the maps treasure chest icon just in case you missed it.

Bioblaster Upgrade : 

You will need a Dynamo to upgrade the Bioblaster. These can be farmed off of several MA machine piloted troops. The MA-Veles is the weakest of these and has a 50% chance to drop one of them. You will encounter these enemies during the main story. Shortly after they will drop from airship attacks from the Imperial forces at random. The MA-Veles Bis is a stronger model, yet holds a 60% Dynamo drop chance. Finally the Hoplomachus has a 90% drop chance which is found at Fort Garrison, possibly only during the mission.

Circular Saw Upgrade :

You can upgrade the circular saw with a sky-gemstone. Right now I have only found one of these and that is off the Feline Feast quest in Cape Caem. It is a simple quest but you may have had to feed the cat originally back in Galdin Quay. If that is the case see the "Kitty Quests". in the side quests section of this guide. Once you give the luxury cat food to the cat you will receive this as a reward, the sky-gemstone. Give it to Cid to upgrade the circular saw.

Gravity Well Upgrade :

To upgrade the Gravity well, you will need a Hydraulic Cylinder. One of these is found at Zegnautus Keep during Chapter 13. If you would like another or missed that one you must kill an MA-X Patria. These mech warriors have a 97% chance to drop the Hydraulic Cylinder. They will spawn from Imperial air-ships after chapter 5 is completed.

Drill Breaker Upgrade : 

To upgrade the drill breaker you will need a magitek core. This can be found if you explore the floors of chapter 13's fortress. I apologize for not having the exact location but there are a few more ways to get your hands on this. You can defeat the MA-X DUX by completing the Formouth Garrison mission. Alternatively you can find one if you find the entrance to the Pitioss dungeon ruins. It should be sitting right outside the area. You may have to activate the quest first by over hearing a conversation through a window in Lestallum.

Another Magitek Core can be found in one of the floors of Costlemark Tower Menace Dungeon. It is in one of the three doors that lead to a treasure. I don't remember the floor precisely but I'm 100% sure because I was hoping for a Magnetron but I found a Magitek Core. Thanks to joyaudouin for the information!
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Side Quests : (Continued)
Cindy Quests :

Cindy quests help to improve your vehicles especially the Regalia early on mainly. You can get interesting items all over the world of Final Fantasy XV for your Regalia and other vehicles. This includes and not limited to, custom paint jobs, decals new music soundtracks for your car on long trips and more.

---------------------------------------------------------------
. The Ever Regal Regalia .
. The Ever Elegant Regalia .
. The Ever Gleaming Regalia .
. The Ever Valorous Regalia .
. The Ever Illustrious Regalia .
. Let Sleeping Mountains Lie .
---------------------------------------------------------------

Most of these set of quests are fetching quest. The markers are working properly. They are quite fun to do as one will lead us to a dark tunnel area with tons of goblins to fight and some other goodies to find. You will get the Aerowax as a reward. This may possibly open up the car shop function. If it doesn't it lets the car "handle better" or something similar from in-game descriptions.

From the Elegant Regalia quest, you will acquire the Aerowax, I think this helps the vehicles controlling. The next quest will reward you with Fiberglass Coating. This apparently decreases the amount of dirt the Regalia picks up. The Ever Valorous Regalia quest will get you the Airflow Compensator. This is the most useful currently to me. It increases the speed of the Regalia to around 60 MPH.

The Ever Illustrious Regalia quest is pretty tough. You must go to Crestholm dungeon and complete a large amount of it. It is a pretty large dungeon that is also a maze. It has tough enemies such as Bussenmand and the Naganatal mini-boss. It is pretty tough, I went in at level 51 and it is recommended to be level 45 in-game. I would have died to the Naganatal snake if I didn't stock up on Maiden Kiss and Gold Needles. For some strange reason, I did just before I went into the dungeon. I suggest having at least 20 Maiden Kiss, 20 Gold Needles, and 10 Remedy if you can. The more the better as always. When you are looking for the marker, you must turn on several switches, so don't worry if it looks like your directly on the quest. You can also complete one of Sylvester's mystery map-quest here. I forget which one exactly but you should scan your quests guide to see. Note, that the Sylvester map piece is located not too far from the Current Quest item.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Takka Quests :

 

Takka at hammerhead dinner quests mainly requires the hunting of enemies and collecting items around a specific area. These quests will net you rewards mainly for Ignis cooking skills. In other words, you will have more recipes and food to eat which is an important part of winning battles in this game. The First quest is a bit tough especially if you try and do it early. It is called Scenic Delivery. The Problem is that the marker shows up on the map without the merchant that sells the tomato item. To fix this head to the  Prarie Outpost north of Hammer Head and buy the TOMATO item there. It will let you complete the quest earlier and save you a headache. Alternatively, you can wait until the merchant appears some time later during the main story. 

----------------------------------------------------
. Scenic Delivery .
. Hunters and Gatherers .
. Emergency Delivery .
. Everyone Loves Beans .
. Lastallums Finest .
. A Meat Most Magnificent .
----------------------------------------------------

Hunters and Gatherers is an easy quest all you have to do is go to the marker and kill the few daggerquill in the area. These enemies fly so be sure to use warp strikes. You will be rewarded with some experience points as well as some food and ingredients. Cleigne Wheat, dualhorn steak and leiden pepper in a decent amount. Emergency delivery is the same concept and you will be rewarded with experience points as well as more Cleigne wheat, some saxham rice and five killer tomatoes. Everyone loves beans cranks up the level a bit but it is still a simple fetch and kill quest. You will be rewarded with 1,500 experience points,Hulldagh Nutmeg, killer tomatoes and leiden pepper.

Next up is Lastallums finest. Your looking for the best ingredients Lastallum has to offer. Head to the proprietor at Lastallum to discover the shipment has a problem. Go to the marker and recover the shipment, killing the Garula enemies in the area. Return to Lastallum and you will receive the package for free. Finally, return to Takka at hammerhead for your reward. 2,000 EXP, Griffon Breast, Schier Tumeric and saxham rice.

For A Meat Most Magnificent, there are a few things that the player should know. Firstly as usual, head to the blue marker at the Coernix Station dinner. Make sure to go to the hunt menu and select the hunt with the Catoblepas. Know that to actually get the Catoblepas Brisket you must "cook" the enemy with fire. A thunder spell may work as well however, I have not tested it yet. Also, know that the item has a drop chance percentage to actually end up in your inventory. In this case we should increase our drop rate %. Go to the nearby campsite and eat a bowl of Mother and Child Rice. ( see Ignis recipe section for more information ). This meal will increase drop rate by 50% among other really great benefits. 

Once you have eaten the Mother and Child Rice as well as set up your hunt for the Catoblepas, you can go ahead and farm it. Just be sure to use fire damage on the Catoblepas. Also, as a double precaution be sure to kill it with a fire spell. Fire does damage over time as well ( DoT ). If the Catoblepas is killed by any form of fire damage including the DoT, it should work. 

After you acquire the Catoblepas Brisket you can return to Takka at Hammerhead station. He will make a new meal on the menu. Select the menu and then the meal. Purchase and eat it for 2,600 Gil. Ignis will learn a really great recipe that has a perk called endurance or something similar. This meal perk will never let you run out of Stamina while on foot. You will also be rewarded with some rare ingredients and finally, this will complete all of Takka's quest for the main content. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dave Quests :

Dave is  an NPC hunter and completing his quests of finding hunter dog tags is very good for healing and procurement items. You can get many elixir's potions and more from completing these without having the purchase them with Gil. Also you, of course, get experience points after resting for completing these quests.

---------------------------------------------------
. Gone Hunting .
. Dust to Dust .
. Final Resting Plains .
. A Rocky End .
----------------------------------------------------

Gone Hunting is the first quest for Dave. Head to the marker location and defeat the sabertusk enemies in the vicinity of the marker. You will receive 500 EXP and 10 Hi-Potions.For Dust to Dust you must have completed Dave's first quest than complete chapter two of the main story. Head to the marker location near an old abandoned shack south of Dave at the Prairie Outpost. Pick up the dog tag and return to Dave to be rewarded with  600 experience points and 5 Mega Potions. Final Resting Plains can be started after completing chapter three of the main line of quests. Simply head to the marker after talking to Dave at Coernix station. Be sure to talk to the man at the restaurant by using the talk option. If you don't the quest marker will not appear. Go to the marker than return to Dave with the dog tag. You will be rewarded with 800 experience points and 10 Elixir's.

A Rocky End will be able to start after completing the first three parts of Dave's quest line. Head to the Cauthess rest area and speak to Dave. He will instruct you to get more information about the dog tag. Speak to the tipster at the restaurant nearby and the marker should appear on the map. Go to it and collect the dog tag than return to Dave. The tag is located behind one of the larger rocks in the vicinity of the marker. You will receive 1,000 EXP and 10 Hi- Elixir items.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dino Quests :

Dino is an interesting character that sends Noctis and the crew on hunts for minerals. If you do some of these quests you will usually gain a buffing accessory item. These are also recommended as you once again gain experience upon completing and rewards. If you are an accessory fan from the previous games you should look into the skill on the ASCENSION part of the main menu. In that menu locate the AP costing skill that can allow you to wear two accessory items at once.

------------------------------------------------------
. Aspiring Artisan .
. A Stone Studded Stunner .
. Reliable Royalty .
. No Pain No Gem .
. A Treasure Beyond Measure .
------------------------------------------------------

For the Aspiring Artisan quest, it is very simple. Head to the marker whether by car or foot. There will be some low-level enemies easy to defeat. Once they are dead mine the materials at the marker, do not do this at night if you're lower than the recommended level. You will acquire 500 EXP and the amethyst bracelet.

A Stone Studded Stunner is the next quest from Dino. It is the same idea as the last and I had no trouble with it. Just travel to the marker and clear the enemies then mine the material and return to Dino at Galdin Quay. You will receive 1,000 EXP as well as the Heliodor bracelet which increases strength. Reliable Royalty is the same concept of the latter quest, Head to the marker then go to the Mineral deposit icon on the map. Farm the rough gem and defeat the enemies in the way. Return to Dino at Galdin Quay for your reward which is a nice Sapphire Bracelet.

No pain no gem follows the same suit as the previous three quest. However, this one has a spike to it ! The rough gem deposit is inside the Myrlwood, which is a dungeon. It is relatively low-level. The game recommends to be around level 37. You may be much higher than that by that if your following this guide. If not, get a few levels by doing hunts to make this easier. You do not have to complete the dungeon, all you need to do is get the gem. Head for the marker and grab it, I will discuss Myrlwood dungeon below in the dungeon section of this side-quest guide. Return to Dino at Galdin Quay and you will get a Ruby Bracelet as your reward and than the next quest.

A treasure beyond measure will lead us to Costlemark Tower. Costlemark Tower opens up only at night. I apologize for not pin-pointing the exact location here. The player should activate this quest once they enter the tower and follow the marker from that point. It is not very difficult to find. You may also want to then switch back to the Costlemark quest and kill two birds with one stone by completing the tower as well. ( See Costlemark Tower ). When you return to Dino you will be rewarded with the Emerald Bracelet and complete his entire line of quests.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vyv Quests :

Vyv can be found waving his hand at his face in Lastallum overlooking the ocean. He is a heavyset man with a beard. He owns a magazine company and is looking for someone or a group to take photos for him. Vyv quests are a great way to earn Gil and they are pretty cut and dry. One quest will even lead you to a Royal arms which is very nice.

------------------------------------------------------
. The Perfect Landscape .
. An Eye For Islands .
. Aftermath of the Astral War .
. Of Gods and Kings .
. Vyv's Volcanic Inspiration .
. A Place to Call Home .
. The Pen is Mightier than the Sword .
. The Cursed Canvas .
------------------------------------------------------
The perfect landscape is a nice easy quest to start with. It is an easy drive away in the Regalia and a good introduction to Vyv's questline. You will make a nice amount of Gil from this too. An eye for islands can be slightly tricky. The first photo marker does not work intentionally. You must head down to near Dino the accessory dealer and go through the ferry gate. On that particular dock is the photo shoot area, it has no marker.

The Aftermath of the Astral war was extremely annoying for me. Be sure to have a Chocobo for this one and get ready for a very long ride. For some reason, I could not fast travel to a location close to the quest marker. Also, Ignis wouldn't drive either I had to go manually. It's a good time to gain some AP while driving and check out the old soundtracks from the previous games. Once you near the marker be sure to have a Chocobo on rental for a few days. Nighttime is not an option for a good photo shot so you will have to wait until morning. This is double trouble because I didn't notice any campsites nearby this area. Also, you must work your way around the Imperial Fortress. Some simple steps are too, Have  a Chocobo, eat a good meal and head out first thing in the morning. For the second shot, it is easy just drive to the specified parking spot and it is very close by.

Of Gods and Kings is a very easy one. This is nice due to the difficulty of the previous photo shoot. This is also a good quest to do because you will learn of another Royal Tomb. Unfortunately, that tomb has been robbed and the nearby castle is the hint given. However, the level required is at least 55 so you will probably die if you head there until then. More on that quest later on. For now take the two required pictures then return to Vyv for your reward.

Vyv's Volcanic Inspiration is one of the best quest for him in the game. It is really fun get ready for some eye candy visuals. This section really shows how far games have come graphically and just how beautiful and huge the world of Final Fantasy XV is. First, you are going to have to complete the previous quests from Vyv to get this one. Next get ready for a huge drive all the way to the volcano east of the map near Cleigne. This segment is considered a dungeon and you will have to scale the whole mountain. You may want to pick up the meal that increases your stamina for the day at the shop right below the volcano. However, it is quite expensive at this point. I personally went through without the stamina boost, but I did pick up the next best meal for the journey.

Next, you want to enter the mountain. Be sure to have a Chocobo on a rental if you get a little lost. The Entrance is almost directly from the town heading towards the mountain. There should be a marker chest icon that pops up as well as the dungeon icon when you are nearby. It is a crevice in between the large rocks that you can seemingly jump on.Also for the enemies, since this is mainly fire based I would have all elemancy spells, but most importantly Blizzard spells. Always have your magic flask with spells handy if your new to the game like I am. Later on in this guide, I will probably be doing a 2nd run with different gear setup to analyze the monsters more stay tuned.

Knowing this and entering the dungeon, make your way up to the marker. One more thing that is immensely important is that you can not take the picture at nighttime. This was a big waste of almost an hour for me. The camp site is close by but you still have to swing around the dungeon to get back to the Photo shoot location. Try and time yourself so you make it there in the daytime. Once you have have the picture head for the campsite and then keep going up the mountain. Eventually, you will come to a Royal Tomb and get the Mace of the Fierce. At this point, you can leave the dungeon as you will have completed both quest after returning the picture to Vyv for 15,000 Gil. Note the next quest can not be completed until later in the game.

A Place to call home will bring us back towards the Crowncity checkpoint. I had a slight problem with this as I didn't remember the road we used at the start of the game. I was trying to find a way around the red barricades and thought you had to finish this quest at a later time in the game. As a matter of fact you can complete it once you acquire the quest. All you have to do is backtrack from the parking spot and look for the road on the left side of the screen if your facing towards the guards. Best to take a Chocobo with you as it is faster. As a reminder we came here at the very start of the main story line and also received the drain lance here. I hope your not still lost, from that point just take a picture at the marker point during the daytime !

The Pen is Mightier than the Sword is basically an easy three part photo quest. It could be annoying if you are short on time. You must drive or fast travel to three marker points and just shoot three pictures with Prompto. Take one picture of the Imperial Base at Leide. Shoot another picture at the base at Duscae. Finally shoot a picture at the Imperial Base in Cleigne. When you are done return to Vyv at Lastallum and he will reward you with around 15,000 Gil as well as the final quest for his Meteor Publishing Company.

The Cursed Canvas could be a slightly annoying quest if you don't like going to Altissia. However, you will find it to be one of the more interesting quests in the game. I just found it a bit creepy and unusual how we finally ran into something haunted in the game. Would have been nice to evolve upon the story but you can't win them all ! ( can you ? ) Head to Altissia then go to the Floating bar Maghoo. Talk to the man there and then select the hunt " Lost Painting ". You will do battle with a strange ghost enemy. This is a unique encounter and I am not sure what type of enemy the ghost is, or how it relates to the story. Regardless I will try and cover that later. Defeat the ghost she is a low level around 30+ on an estimate. Once she is defeated head back to Vyv for a huge reward in Gil, and the completion of his quest line. Also, return to a tipster for the hunt for some extra EXP and rewards.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navyth Quests :

----------------------------------------------
. Fishing Buddies .
. Fishing Naturally .
. Navyth's Challenge .
. An Angler's Nightmare .
----------------------------------------------

Fishing Buddies .

 You can first find Navyth fishing at the Nebula Wood Area of the game. Talk to him and he will give Prince Noctis a quest. At the Nebula Wood fishing pond, Navyth would like us to catch the Crag Barramundi. Use a Sweet Jamming Custard lure and reel one in. This could be slightly difficult for beginning fishermen. Take your time and practice, if you really hate fishing read on for the rewards. If your still not interested it is just a side quest you can pass.

 Once you catch the Barramundi you will be rewarded with the Knife T. Tonberry lure from Navyth. It is considered a unique lure and you may lose it if you lose to a hooked fish. I am currently not sure if there is another way to get one of these if lost. I wouldn't use it often in that case or at all. If you need to use it for a certain fish, later on, check Noctis fishing section below. I may also make note of it here to make things easier.

Fishing Naturally .  

The next Navyth location will be at Callatan's plunge. This is near the main story quest and the giant Midgardsormr snake. Head to that location and look for a question mark on your map near the parking spot north of the waterfall. Talk to Navyth and he will request you fish a Cherrycomb trout. Look up your lure items and match the one that is best suited for Cherrycomb Trout. At this location fish for the Cherrycomb, once you complete the quest Navyth will give you the Butterfly Edge rod. It is more defensive than the Mind Breaker so equip it as soon as possible.

Navyth's Challenge . 

 If you camp at the Vesperpool area you may trigger one of the hardest quest in the game. This is called the Liege of the Lake. You may fail or skip that quest for now and continue with Navyth's quest line. However, at the Vesperpool pond is where you can catch the Vesper Gar. This is the fish Navyth is looking for, any Vesper Gar will do, to complete the challenge. This fish is a bit tougher to catch and prepares you slightly for the two nightmare fishes we must catch later. Remember you should be reeling in when the TENSION sign is not popping up on the screen. Note, there is much more to fishing than just that. You should also be paying attention to the rumble of the controller and fish direction on the T.V. screen. Furthermore, you should keep an eye on your line and the fish health bar. Your reward will be the Invincible Iron Giant lure which is another unique lure. See the Noctis Fishing section below for more information.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kitty Quests :

----------------------------------------------
. Kitty Catering .
. Feline Feast .
----------------------------------------------
 You will find a white kitty in Galdin quay. It looks hungry so you must fish it a meal. Fishing is a part of the game and a skill of Noctis. You will acquire various leisure items from fishing among other rewards and completion points for the game. For this quest, you will learn to fish so I recommend doing it and following the Tutorial. After you catch the fish at the marker you must cook it right at the restaurant at Galdin Quay. Afterward, return it to the cat to complete the quest.

Feline Feast quest can be completed once you get to Cape Caem. Your reward will be a most precious Sky Gemstone. To complete the quest talk to the Woman we met with Cor before entering the first royal tomb in the main story. She is now at the Cape Caem hideaway inside the house near the kitchen. Talk to her about the cat and she will assist you with this quest. Once you have the food return it to the cat for the Sky Gemstone, some experience points and Gil.
Lastallum Quests :

----------------------------------------------
. Van Interrupted .
. Van Interrupted Again .
----------------------------------------------

Pick up this quest at the Lastallum market near where you first meet Iris. One of the merchant there will send you on the quest to find the van and return the merchandise. If you do so and return you will be given another quest as well as lower prices from that particular merchant. This merchant sells very expensive items for cooking so it may be worth it to you. The next quest is the exact same idea. Follow the marker to the location and pick up the goods. If there are enemies clear them out, be decent level if you're having trouble. The reward will be a further decrease in this merchant's store prices.

----------------------------------------------
. On the hunt for the harvest .
. Wild About Onions .
. Vegging Out .
----------------------------------------------
This quest is also located in Lastallum main market area. Talk to the Proprietor in the black/gray shirt. He will give you this simple fetch quest. Return to him after it is complete and you will get lower prices and experience points from this particular merchant. The next quest is the same idea, Wild about Onions will send Noctis and the crew to a map location. Clear out the area, get the Onions and you will get a new recipe with Ignis. Once you return the onion to the proprietor he will further reduce his selling prices. This is important if you wish to complete the cooking list with Ignis. Finally the last quest from this particular proprietor will send us to another simple kill and fetch quest. Head to the marker and do as told, when you return prices will be lowered dramatically. This will also complete the quest line of this proprietor.

----------------------------------------------
. Ace Of Carapace .
. Tails Spin .
. Sting Your Praises .
----------------------------------------------
These quests are given to Noctis by the arms merchant at the Cullness sword and munitions shop in Lastallum. They are basically like hunting quest with a slight objective. Pretty simple and easy to pull off. Head to the marker for each and complete the easy objectives. Every time you return you will get lower prices from this vendor. Also, you will get your EXP reward and some Gil. This is probably a good questline to due early on when you first reach Lastallum. You can acquire all the weapons much cheaper that way.

----------------------------------------------
. Mind the Trap .
----------------------------------------------
This quest is given to you by one of the Proprietor's grandson. It is a bit tougher so listen up, this merchant also sells strange items you may want to look into. After heading to the marker point by driving to it in the Regalia there will be a man to talk to. Talk to him and learn about the traps. Head to the marker and disarm all 5 traps. These can be tough to locate as they are not pinpointed. Remember one or two of them are hidden behind the green bushes. Also, one located almost at the very edge of the blue marker highlighted circle. After disarming the 4th trap you will fight Level 20 enemies x2. These should be easy enough even at a lower level. After disarming all 5 traps a Level 34 Coeurl will appear that I could not kill at level 20. It also has a Coerul sleeping nearby that can wake up giving you two of these to fight at once. Personally, I died and had to do the whole quest over again wasting time. Just a warning save your game after disarming all the traps.  Also, you should run out of the area after disarming all 5 traps and return to the man at the station. After completing the quest head back to the Proprietor's grandson. They will give you lower prices and some experience points.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dungeon Quests :

---------------------------------------------------
. Malmalam Thicket Dungeon .
---------------------------------------------------

This is an optional dungeon, that you will trigger on the way to Cape Caem with Iris during the All Set to Sail main quest. Stop here only if you are around level 32 or above. It is a very linear road however it is long and winding. Rent a Chocobo and rent one for at least 3 days to be safe. You once again, never want to be both without a car or Chocobo. Along the road you will encounter Killer Bee enemies that are quite simple, this will eventually lead to a campsite where you should farm all elements, eat a meal and wait until morning. Make sure to eat a strong meal as the boss is coming up. Note the boss is weak vs Lightning and there is a two-handed thunderbolt sword along the linear road. Be sure to pick up all glowing blue items. This sword will help a large amount, especially when equipped on Gladiolus with tempest technique. Once you reach the end of the road you will see a huge opening in the thicket. The monster ahead is the huge level 38 Bandersnatch. Weak to lightning so have at least a tricast thundara x3 to make this fight a breeze. For the reward, you can enter the Royal Arms Tomb and acquire the Staff of Pious.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------
. Rock of Ravatogh . ( Dungeon )
------------------------------------------------------

You may pick up this quest from Vyv's questline like I did. Recommended level is 35 by the game. I suggest being around that or higher preferably 40+ You can access the quest once you actually go inside the dungeon day or night. However, it is harder to see at night so beware. You should do this with Vyv's quest or you will have to scale the mountain twice. Regardless, it can get a bit tricky. If you time everything right you can take the picture during the day. So it would be best to set out really early in the morning in-game even before the sun comes up. See Vyv's questline for more information, or Mace of the Fierce.

After taking the picture, there is a campsite nearby. Use it and collect the elements around the area. You might also want to look into eating a meal that gives you constant stamina for the day. It is located in the town near the Rock of Ravatogh. However, it is quite expensive for now and I scaled the rock without it. After camping your game should autosave and you can continue up the mountain. You're going to have to slowly climb to cliffs. It takes a while, but be patient. You're going to have to scale them twice if you need the picture. Which is why I suggested going out at the appropriate time.

Once you make it to the huge area that looks like a battle arena, past the giant eggs you are close. Strange why there is no boss fight here, perhaps something later on in a hunt ? Continue past the huge arena. Do not go down the big hole, you will slide down and have to scale the mountain again from about halfway. If you missed the picture do not go down the hole, simply backtrack from the two cliffs. If you don't you will waste time and probably not be happy, it happened to me. After passing the alcove without going down it, head for the marker. Shortly after a few more paths you will enter the tomb and acquire the mace of the fierce. Once again if you forgot the photo backtrack. After you're done you can return to the dungeon entrance and go to Vyv. If you already completed Vyv's quest you're done, for now at least.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. The Myrlwood .
-------------------------------------------------------------

The Myrlwood is one of the easier and smaller dungeons in the game. You may run into it randomly or be led there for a quest from Dino called No pain no gem. It is small and even has a campsite right before the boss. I was almost double the recommended game level here which is 37. At level 67 this dungeon was a total breeze. Even if I was a lower level it would still be really easy because it is rather small, and the local campsite. You can probably get to this dungeon pretty early in the game, but I apologize for not having a good strategy for that point just yet.You will acquire a nice addition to the Armiger here as well, which is the Star of The Rouge.  
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Daurell Caverns .
-------------------------------------------------------------

This is an easy dungeon but it could be hard to find. Strangely you must also complete this dungeon to start the sealed doors quests. The sealed doors quest can be activated by receiving the key from Ezma. I will explain that a bit later in this guide. For now your main objective is to lower the ladder and clear out the level 28 dungeon. This is not too difficult as the dungeon is rather linear. There is a moogle charm located here, but that was the only thing really worth noting for items. To find this area head to the Dory of the Deep fishing spot near Secallum pass parking area. From dory of the deep travel along the road until you get to the dungeon's entrance.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Balouve Mines . 
-------------------------------------------------------------

This is a level 50 game recommended side dungeon. I really think you should do it as the reward is awesome. It is located south of the Callaegh Steps and southwest of the Camille campsite. If your driving from Galdin Quay notice the yellow road that leads right on the world map. Be sure to zoom in on your map when at the local parking spot for the area. It is sometimes hard to find. I missed it myself honestly so just be on the look-out for the road that leads to it's elevator.

This dungeon has several floors and seems like it is going to be a nightmare. However, the floors are not too big and there are only 4 basements. On a side-note I love what Final Fantasy is doing with the dungeons here. I feel they started getting clever with this kind of stuff in Final Fantasy X. It seemed to be missing from XIII. I could be wrong as I don't remember much of that game. In Final Fantasy XV they are simply the best, well designed, emmersive and more. Remember to save your game before heading down the elevator. If you forget be sure to take it back up or return to entrance from the game menu screen.

The Dungeon will be infested with goblins, these goblins are mainly weak to fire. You can use warp strike attacks to get a nice amount of AP ( Ascension Points ) here. Remember a clean one shot kill with a warp strike will usually get one AP. Don't forget the warp strike does more damage the further away you are from the enemy. If you want to get through this dungeon easily and it is your first time, equip something like the Magi-tek shield or the assist suit, it gives more hit-points. Also have your potions handy for the boss later.

Two important items in this dungeon are the Circlet and the Friendship band. There is one more accessory that can be found near the boss battle easily. The Circlet is in the corner shaft or railway. It is hard to describe, but the circlet will increase magic attack by +150. Be on the look-out for it if you like buffing your spell and ring of the lucii damage. The friendship band can be found right before the goblin locks the gate in on the crew. Go back to the elevator and to the right of it will be the friendship band. Note, you may have had to already kill the boss for this event to occur. However, the friendship band will always be in that location.

There is a strange walkway or bridge that you will see a Ronin type enemy on. Do not worry you are supposed to be knocked down by him. The idea of this dungeon is to get that Ronin in the innermost sanctum. Since the dungeon is not too big this is not much of a problem. You will eventually see him from higher ground. When you do start heading down the ladders. Notice a CREVICE in the wall. Save that as a memory for later, this is how we will get the prize at the end of the dungeon. As soon as you can lock-on to the Ronin enemy whose name is Asanmura or something similar, do so to engage the battle. I was level 65+ here so it was rather simple for me. 

Lower levels, may not have it as sweet and easy as I did. This enemy has a nasty deathblow attack that can put you into danger with one shot. If you are hit again in danger mode you are dead. All Ronins have this ability it is outright tough. This deathblow damage may be incresed in level due to the nature of the boss level being higher. If you have a safety bit, which was found in the walkthrough during chapter 13 equip it. If you don't sometimes they are found as random loot at treasure spots on the map. Yojimbo enemies will also drop these, however the drop chance is rumored to be 1% which is very low. Overall they are around and you really don't need it at the moment, it is just an extra. Crank up your Vitality, which is the ( FIST ) icon. Remember this guy can be parried and you can deal extra damage that way. Royal arms can be a double edged sword as well. I used the engine blade at Ultima level for this fight. I also had a nice amount of Fira or Firaga spell at a lower potency, but x35 casts ! I used this on the goblins the entire way and than I implemented it upon the Ronin/Asanmura. Remember he is level 52, there is also a stat boost called Equalizer, look into it in the Ignis cooking recipe below. The Equalizer lowers enemy attacks to scale down to your characters highest level ( Noctis ).

When you achieve victory, head back up the ladder and look for the crevice in the wall I mentioned earlier. You can take that all the way to the Royal Tomb. Also take care to notice the locked door that is inaccessible at the moment. ( Info on that coming soon ). Finally, head inside the Royal Tomb and acquire the awesome Bow of the Clever. This is a mighty two-handed crossbow that is great for Anti-Air ( Defeating airborne enemies ). It looks awesome as well and is pretty fun to use. When you are down return to the entrance via the game menu. ( See weapons section for more on royal arms ).
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Crestholm Channels .
-------------------------------------------------------------

Recommended game level for this dungeon is around 45+. To access the dungeon you will have to first defeat the troops around the blockade. You will pick up this quest randomly if you find the dungeon entrance or if you complete Cindy's quest line of Regalia reward based quests. The dungeon can be a little confusing and the Naginata snake mini-boss is actually pretty tough. For the Naginata you want to have an accessory that can stop petrification and toad. A Golden Hourglass will work or a pendant that prevents toad. Alternatively, if you do not have either of those you can stock up on Gold Needles and Maiden Kiss procurement items. This might be a better option because you can heal your allies as well as Noctis.

At the end of the dungeon you will fight the boss, which is another massive snake beast called Jormungand. I didn't find him as difficult as the Naginata, although the Jormungand is still quite a powerful foe. There was really not much for me to say about this battle for now, In the bestiary or in my second play-through I will give a better analysis. For now, have tons of procurement items. Save before you enter the dungeon and try and have your Armiger at max for the start or at least during the battle.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Costlemark Tower .
-------------------------------------------------------------

This dungeon can only be accessed at night and is game recommended level 55+. I went into this dungeon at level 75+ because I had tons of side-quest I wanted to catch up on. This would include the fact of how hard I heard this dungeon was. If you don't know the game too well, I suggest leveling up as always. However, if you wish to brave it at lower levels at least bring some Gold Needles with you as well as a Safety Bit item for the Yojimbo enemies and the levels boss. You should also have some Insulated Inners for the Galvanade and thunder bomb enemies. The insulated Inners give higher resistance to lightning attacks. Also have plenty of healing potions and all of that  obvious stuff. Your weapon load-out should consist of some magic. Preferably anything except for lightning magic would do. You may also want to balance between a decent attack power and magic power as well as some defenses. I know this may not fit your inventory correctly, so you may have to do some swapping depending on the battle.

I like Trident of the Oracle vs the Bussenmand enemies. They are always jumping at you and the way your decoys spawn just seem to work right against them. It will land an extra hit or two on the Bussenmands and possibly knock them down. This works even better in the tight corridor puzzle later on. The smaller goblin type enemies also will be susceptible to this weapon. The bombs and Galvanades are really tough as they also come in huge packs. Ring of the Lucci is an option, however I would only switch too it after casting a big spell that lowers the health of the bombs. This should entice them to "blow up" on the player. If you have the ring equipped at that point you can do some AoE ( area of effect ) damage to other bombs this way. Also your dodging so you will not be hit, even if they decide to attack and not blow up on you. The safety bit item is strictly for the Yojimbo enemies you do not want to be instantly killed. Finally, gold needles are a cheaper way to cure petrification than using remedy items for the main boss who is quite easy.

When you reach the Red Giants and the puzzle area, know that you are in-fact inside a puzzle when you are "proceeding" through the blue glowing platforms. Be sure to check your map and make sure you are not always heading in the same direction. Once again red giants can be tough, but if you break their chest they are much easier to take down. In this case it may be harder, because there are several red giants as well as smaller enemies. Spells are your friend in this case as are using techniques and perhaps your Armiger. ( see bestiary for red giants ).

The boss is level 58 and can petrify Noctis and the party. This is why we brought along Gold Needles with us. Spells will do a  good amount of damage if they are in high potency vs Jabberwock and overall the boss is not as hard as the dungeon itself. If you have to summon use it even if you want to just speed up the process of a pretty simple battle. Remember if you use the red warp tile you will be brought back to the start of the level. In-fact know after using the red warp tile, than heading to the white one near the entrance will lead you back outside. If it is daytime you will have to wait until nighttime to enter the dungeon again. Just know this, because it happened to me and I was standing around waiting and wasting time.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Formouth Garrison . ( Infiltration )
-------------------------------------------------------------

This is another infiltration quest much like the two earlier during the main quest line. You have the option of sneaking around the base and disabling the Magi-Tek core. Alternatively, you may go and destroy all the troops in your path. I happened to fall somewhere in between that. If you get caught the troops will be alerted and it will become a big battle. In this case get ready for two waves of forces. The first will be a pure force of ballistic gun firing Imperial troops and the second will have more. The second wave will also include two Magi-Tek warrior bosses, Calico and Loci. It seemed very hard to me at first even at a decent level of 55+. The recommended level for this is 46+. I realized a bit later that there are two turrets that you can use. One is a rocket firing turret the other a Gatling gun. Use both to your advantage depending on the angle at which you need to fire. This will make both bosses, Calico and Loci a breeze. If you are having trouble unlocking this quest, Walk from Weaver Wilds towards the Prairie Outpost and the quest should eventually begin. Note, this even may only take place after you have beaten the main story of the game. When completed you will have all parts for the Regalia - Type - F. Go take a look at it by completing the quest at Cindy in Hammer Head.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------
. Menace Dungeons . [ Ezma's Key ]
------------------------------------------------------------

To get the key from Ezma, you must complete all of the dungeons in the game. This means you will have acquired every Royal Arms as well. The shield of the just may not be considered a dungeon but I wouldn't take the chance and acquire it before talking to Ezma. Ezma is located at Meldacio Hunter HQ sitting in a chair near one of the shops. The quest question mark will pop up later in the game when all dungeons are cleared. Ezma will believe you are worthy to hold the key to enter these sealed door maze areas. They can be pretty difficult so be appropriate level. They actually go up to Level 99 so they should test your skills! All quests will pop-up on the quest menu so you can keep track of them. I would start by going through the lowest levels first which would be Keycatrich Trench Dungeon.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
. Menace Keycatrich Ruins . [ Sealed Door ] 
---------------------------------------------------------------------

I didn't find this dungeon to be too hard at level 75 when the recommended level is around 65 on an estimate. Head to the sealed door which is easy enough due to the marker or just by remembering from earlier in the game. The trick I found to complete the dungeon is to always be heading downward. There are a few items to collect though. One is the Dominator sword which can be found right at the Campsite. The second nice item is the Wizard Shield which is found lower in the dungeon after the campsite. Finally, you will get the very nice Hyper Magnum for defeating the giant flan boss at the end of the level. Overall this one was not very tough at all and you should breeze through it. You may have to backtrack a bit to make it to the boss so don't worry if you get slightly lost the area is not that huge.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------
. Menace Grotto Dungeon . [ Sealed Door ]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Head to the waterfall area in the plunge section of the map. Go behind the waterfall to start the quest. This is the dungeon that we went to early on in the game for the Royal Arms. The name of the main quest was Sword in the waterfall. Once you have the location correct head inside the dungeon. You can run past almost all of the original enemies in this section. Just remember to use the "Proceed" option twice. Look for the light blue lines on the mini-map and use them both or you may end up going in circles. Once you get to the sealed door head inside.

There will be three items here that you should really pick up. Be sure to pick up all blue glowing loot. Most importantly look out for the Black Belt an exclusive accessory for Gladiolus. Be on the lookout for the Vigilantes which is a set of daggers mainly for Ignis. Finally at the end of the dungeon will be the executioner which deals extra damage to vulnerable targets. To get these I really suggest exploring the entire dungeon. It could be hard and i died without saving at the campsite. I got greedy and wanted to store the EXP. The campsite will give a soft save so be sure to use it and save before entering the dungeon.

The biggest enemy that I had trouble with here were the Elder Coeurls. These cat-like enemies are tough and can one shot kill you. I realized later that they are lightning damage. When you run into them be sure to equip some lightning resistance based gear. Genji gloves will work for 30% and I would also use a safety bit. This is for the Yojimbo enemies and just in-case the Coeurl has an instant death attack. It seems like it does but I am not sure. The Final Boss of the dungeon is a Kengo which is a higher level version of Yojimbo. This enemy for sure can use instant K.O. ( death ) on you with one strike. Safety bit is required here. After that feel free to use any strength enhancing royal arms weapons and pick a nice weapon to counter Yojimbo attacks. Katana of the Warrior might be a fun option. Vs the Kengo be sure to counter and block when prompted. 

The cryonades are also really tough. These are ice-bomb enemies at a higher level and there are tons of them in this dungeon. Be sure to have some Fire,Fira,Firaga spells in a magic flask as they are weak to that elemancy type. Have plenty of it because there are literally tons of these guys. If things get really sticky you should have ring of the Lucii equipped in a slot. It's HOLY spell is nice vs these bomb enemies as you can dodge their explosion while doing damage. Try keeping your distance and letting the party members take the big explosions. It's a pretty tough dungeon so use my tactics and don't forget that campsite.

In conclusion, I actually died in this dungeon as stated above to the Elder Coeurl. I almost died again earlier on vs the Cryonades and their pack of smaller ice-bombs. It is also really long and there are plenty of battles so just be warned. There are actually two campsites here because of the length of the dungeon. Have most importantly a Safety Bit and Genji Gloves or lightning resist accessory. Spirit enhancing items are also great here until you reach the boss of the level the Kengo.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------
. Menace Fociaugh Dungeon .
------------------------------------------------------------

I thought that these dungeons would be different but this is pretty much an identical look of the first two menace dungeons. Sure the enemies are different and there are a few new items to pick up. One of which is Organyx daggers that has less attack power than the vigilantes and less statistic boosts than the Ulric's Kukris. Not really sure why they are in a higher level dungeon. I also found a nice centurion bangle but it is pretty obsolete once you acquire the adamantite bangle. Finally you will acquire the enhancer sword at the end of the dungeon when you do battle with a rare iron giant enemy. The enhancer sword is weaker than the Ultima Blade by about 100 attack points and it doesn't look much different than most blades. I actually found it pretty useless. You should probably just run through this dungeon fast and only to complete the all quests if your a completionist. It is easy enough and I was around level 85+ at the time. I also just realized I missed the Grand Chamberlin accessory for Ignis which will help you complete the entire game. It is probably his best accessory and it is located near the end of this dungeon. When I go back to get it I will be filling this section in more. Know for now that you can acquire this item here.

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Menace Daurell Caverns Dungeon .
-------------------------------------------------------------

Firstly, this area needs to be accessed and it can be slightly tricky. Go inside the dungeon and make your way towards the marker. There should be a ladder nearby that is also guarded by an Iron Giant and some hecteye enemies. The only way I could figure out to get to the ladder point was by point warping during the battle. First kill off the hecteyes then weaken the iron giant. Point Warp to the ladder location and use technique commands to finish him off with your party members. Move the joystick very slightly to drop down from the point warp location. Finally, proceed through the hole to the menace dungeon door. Also make sure to descend the ladder before doing this just to have a return point. You may have to return to the dungeon entrance if you mess up and have the Iron giant respawn.

Once you are inside the dungeon, it is similar to the previous ones. Keep heading down to get to the boss, but be sure to check all the rooms as you defeat the enemies and pick up the loot when necessary. You will encounter tons of high-level flan type enemies. Sir Tonberry enemies as well as Coeurls. Finally you will encounter a large demon near the end and a Malbadoom. The Final boss is a more powerful version of the Naganinta enemy. Precautions should be wearing a ribbon on notcis as well as a safety bit. If you have the adamantoise bangle that is also another good but optional piece of equipment. Crank up attack power if you wish by eating a Crown City roast when you reach both camp sites. This should speed up most of the battle encounters. Also be sure to have some good dual cast elemental spells for the flan enemies. The higher the dual cast the better for example tri cast, quad cast etc.

Some of the items you should get would be the Moogle Charm and this would be the 5th moogle charm that I have personally run into in the game. The Precision Lance will be rewarded as loot on the ground once you beat the boss of the dungeon. There will also be some lavender oil as well as an oracle earring. Most importantly will be the Field Medicine accessory which can be found a little bit after the first campsite. This accessory will have Noctis automatically use a potion when his health reaches half of it's maximum potential or potency. This will be very useful when we run into the Costlemark menace tower dungeon later perhaps.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------
. Pitioss Dungeon . [ Special ] 
-------------------------------------------------------------

. Foreword .

I am sure many of you have heard of this dungeon by now and may or may not have completed it. The general census is that it is very difficult and that I would agree. For me personally it took me a good solid 10 hours if not more to complete. I had my breaks in-between but not many. A few things to tell you about or recommend that you do before starting this dungeon.

Firstly, if you have work or school I suggest finding a good time to play this dungeon. For example when you have a weekend off because you will need at least one whole day to take this down for most people. Depending on your priorities know that you can not save in a dungeon. You can leave the dungeon with what you have acquired and possibly save and come back. That is what the red glowing gargoyle stones are for, they are mini save points. Even with those you may not want to exit the dungeon, so a good day off or two is your best bet to try and conquer Pitioss.

Secondly, this dungeon does not have a true quest marker. Stealing the past will lead you to the dungeons entrance where you should pick up the magitek core. This will grant you 50,000 experience points as well as a Magitek core for either upgrades or Gil.Once you are inside the dungeon it will only be Noctis, the party remains outside. You should know that in this case the dungeon can not truly be completed. Pitioss dungeon is just about collecting all the items you can there is no main objective. You can set a side-goal which is considered to be obtaining the Black Hood accessory item. People use this as a mark of completion, because once you receive it you will have solved all the puzzles in the dungeon. However, you may not have picked up all the items along the way. There are tons of items to pick up and we will talk about that below.

Thirdly, in knowing some of the information above this section should really determine if you want to complete the dungeon or not. You will not gain any cosmetic changing items here. This includes new "ultimate" weapons with cool looks or cool new attire items. The rewards are mainly procurement based items and things that sell for large amounts of Gil. You will find a good amount of Oracle Ascension coins, which are really good for obtaining rare accessory items, possibly needed for end-game activities. You will gain tons of ether,elixir, and other curing procurement items along the way. You will gain a few rare monster treasures to sell for Gil mainly. Finally, you will gain tons of accessory items. However, there are really only three accessory items worth noting. The first is the Genji gloves, which can be found on the stomach of the golden goddess statue. The second is the Pendulum which increases spirit by +80. I forget it's exact location please let me know someone ! Finally the Black Hood, which is a super accessory that automatically dodges attacks for Noctis only. It still consumes MP ( magic points ) with each dodge.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Stealing the Past . 

If you read the above and are ready to continue onward get into the Regalia Type-F. You should first drive to Lastallum if you have not already and pick up the stealing the past quest. To do this go around to the back part of town and look for a window that you can "check". Listen to the conversation and this will pop open the quest "stealing the past ". It is very easy to complete if your going to Pitioss ruins, so be sure to pick it up. You will gain 50,000 EXP ( experience points ) for completing it. Remember to leave your quest marker on and pick up the Magitek core right before the dungeons entrance.

After picking up the stealing the past quest, fly with the Regalia Type-F to the Rock of Ravatogh on the map. Be sure to look at your map and you will notice a strong Yellow Line. This is the landing point for the Pitioss ruins. It may take a few attempts for you to get the landing down, as it is a very small runway. Save your game before attempting this and know that you may have to do a few long drives to be able to "take off" in the Regalia again. You may have to fly back to the Rock of Ravatogh as well. The game is already testing your patience at this point and if you don't like what your getting into back off now.

If you made it to the landing point safely with the Regalia, there is a camping spot nearby. Be sure to use it and refill on elemancy. If it is near nighttime and you want to hurry to the dungeon head all the way North east up the hills. There will be a few enemies here that you can run past, Basilisk and Malborodooms. There are also a few interesting treasure to collect but I wouldn't bother with them for now. You should be around level 70 to kill the enemies in this area. However, know that you can be any level to conquer Pitioss dungeon. Once you pass the enemies run up the winding hill roads and you should see a white structure near the top. This is the dungeons entrance, it will only open at night. Right before the entrance will be the Magitek core, make sure your "stealing the past " quest marker is on to get the exact location.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Pitioss Dungeon . 

I can't walk you through the entire dungeon, word for word. For that I apologize. However, I can give you some major tips and a few things to point out. If I do a second run I will edit this section to make it easier for everyone. For now, bear with me please ! The first thing you should know is that you can die here, by virtually anything that looks like it can kill you. However, you will respawn rather than go back to loading screens. This is a very good thing since you will probably be dying tons of times. The bad thing is that some respawn locations start you back at the beginning of that particular puzzle area. In other cases you may have to conquer some puzzles twice if you mess up. 

The circle tiles with lights coming out of them, usually a red orange or white will unlock doors and trigger different puzzles in the dungeon. Remember to hit them and figure out where to go from what has opened up. The first part of the dungeon is generally easy and the dungeon is broken down into several areas that have a respawn point. So for starters remember the tiles with the glowing lights, activate them, the first or second one should move the giant ball below, when the ball is moved you can progress onward.

Skipping a few things and bringing us to the rotating yellow sphere room. This was tough I was confused for a while, but there is one simple trick to progress quickly. When the ball stops rotating for a little bit, be sure to stand right on top of it. Look down into the spikes and you should see a hole that leads to the next ball. Activating this will help you progress to the next part of the dungeon. On the side if you would like more collectibles, you can run north,west,or east to smaller puzzles that lead to some loot from the yellow rotating sphere top. It is still difficult as you must jump onto rotating platforms with spikes ! However, you may get several oracle ascension coins out of doing so.

The Rotating Skull spike doom machine room . You think your done right ? The music has changed I must be at the great reward. WRONG ! this is the halfway point. Continue on your journey through the rotating skull room. The trick I learned here is that you want to get inside the actual mechanism, you can do this by accessing the bottom of the machine right near the stairs if you made it that far.

In the slanted platform room make your way until you see a glowing blue item fragment on a almost straight small platform. It is a very hard jump to make and you will have to hold back on the controller stick to avoid rolling to far. Don't worry it took me about 25 times and than some to get it right. Even after I was still dying. Once you actually land it, you may be confused where to head next. Turn the camera around and instead of jumping, simply walk up the platform to the next area of the dungeon. The next area should be the side platforming area or the " 2-D platforming section ". This area is arguably the easiest part of the entire dungeon and I don't remember the Pendulum being here, so you don't have to worry about items too much either.

Another rough part that comes to mind is the Statue of the Goddess room. When you get to this point, be sure the area "tilts" when you jump to the starting platform. Run up from that point until you reach what appears to be the western or left side of the area. Wait until the room rotates again than head up, then down onto the floating diamond shaped platforms right near the giant female statue. From here, simply jump onto the statue and it will fall down. Run down to the statue's belly button and pick up the Genji Gloves. To finish run up the statues left arm and then her head. Finally, make a well executed fall onto the railing and slide all the way down to the next part of the dungeon.

After the giant female statue area, I really can't think of anything else too difficult as far as puzzles. There is a bit more to go and it can still be tough though. You should be back near the start of the dungeon a little bit after the female statue area. If so your almost home free too the black hood. I am pretty sure at this point you can even exit and save your game outside with everything in-tact. However ! I did not test this myself, if you want to find out go ahead and let me know if you can, it is appreciated. Moving on, the last problem I can recall other than platforming problems was activating the final switch. Since the puzzle is practically solved, you may see one final white lit tile on the eastern side of the room, if you entered from the main entrance of the dungeon. I personally did a running jump and slashed my sword to get to the platform that leads to the tile. Hit the tile, than jump across the door to a path of glowing blue items. Walk across this area of items until you reach the next and final red gargoyle stone. Break it and you will realize your back at the entrance. Instead of leaving head through the final white lit tile and the elevator will take you up to the  Black Hood !!!

In conclusion, this was very very difficult. It was worth it to complete to me and a nice edition to not only the game but the series. Square-Enix did a great job giving us a challenge here. The rewards are actually pretty sweet and even overpowered ( black hood ). It is your option to use it and complete this dungeon once again. I found the dungeon to be designed excellent. You get punished for your mistakes most of the time not because of bad design. It is harder than any Legend of Zelda dungeon I have every played. Although, the fun factor of Zelda is no where near as strong. I also found the dungeon to be an accomplishment upon finishing and I do recommend doing it if you are a true fan with the time to do so. Side note don't forget there is a Moogle Charm in this dungeon as well.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Side Quests : (Continued)
Misc Quests :

----------------------------------------------
. A Cry for Help .
. Broken Down .
. New to the Road .
. Car-mic Retribution .
. Conceal Don't Feel .
. Waiting For Help .
. Search and Rescue .
. Blame the Beasts .
. The Jolly Joyrider .
. I'm Late .
. New to the Road .
-----------------------------------------------
These quests are hard to pinpoint as they are found all over the wilderness. I will get better locations a bit later on. However, I suggest always keeping handy some repair kits and potions as you will need them for quests like these. Rewards are usually a nice amount of Gil and some experience points. In particular during the cry for help quest. The man may be a bit hard to find. He is laying down in pain inside the building that you heard the initial shout from.  

Carmic Retribution can be found south of the Callaegh Steps on the side of the road you will find another troubled man that needs a repair kit. You can purchase some at your car at this point in the game. Do so and you will be rewarded with Gil and experience points.Conceal don't feel quest can be triggerd by driving down the yellow road on the map which is The Three Valleys.Waiting for help quest is easy but to locate and trigger it you must drive manually down to Galdin Quay from Hammerhead. Search and Rescue can be triggered by driving Northwest from Hammerhead. For these quests always be sure to have a regular potion or antidote. If it is specified as another item let me know I will add more detail shortly.Note again you can purchase most if not all of these quest items from the Regalia.

Blame the beasts side-quest for help can be located near the bird on the brink Wiz Chocobo side quest. Someone will be calling for help around the edge of a large boulder nearby. You will find the man sitting down in need of a potion. Be sure to have a potion handy and give it to the hunter for some experience points and 500 Gil. The Jolly Joyrider is located at Secallum Pass Parking spot which is also right near Dory of the deep. Daurell Caverns is not too far off as well. Be sure to have a repair kit and give it to the man with the green broken down vehicle.

I'm Late and New to the Road can also be found near the Saxham Outpost. One is on the right road and one on the left from the saxham outpost text on the map. Use your repair kit on both markers for some experience points as well as Gil as a reward.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tour Quests : 

These quests are choice based quests that can lead to better friendships, romances or even easter eggs for Prince Noctis on his Journey. You can answer the quests in different ways or possibly change the outcome of a cut scene and more.

-------------------------------------------------
. A Stroll For Two .
. Rise Shine and Run .
. Stirred not Shaken .
. Liege of the Lake .
. Up Close and Personal .
. Flower for Iris .
. Training Missions. 
-------------------------------------------------
 A Stroll for two is completed in the main section or walkthrough of this guide. It is somewhat required as it links directly into the main quest. See the main walkthrough for more information. Rise Shine and Run pops up after Ignis tells you about your shirt being ripped. Nex time you camp Gladiolus will confront you and if you accept his challenge you will go for a run wit him. I lost and I am not sure if it is possible to beat him. Regardless, you will gain AP and EXP and a bit more dialogue with Gladiolus.

 I got this next one when I cooked Noctis favorite food. It may be random for you or different. Ignis will come up to you that night at camp and ask you to cook. Next morning he will have a conversation with you. You must stir the pot with the left stick twice. If you complete the quest and listen to the conversation you will be rewarded some AP. Perhaps this is SquareEnix way of showing you why Ignis does the cooking rather than the player.

Liege of the Lake . 

The absolute hardest skill based quest I have come across thus far in the game. It took me around 25 attempts to complete this. To start the quest you should have completed the game or at least be close towards the last chapter. Head to the Vesperpool parking location and then the Capitis Haven campsite. Refill on energy and elemental sources and make camp. Have Ignis cook a nice meal and get ready for bed. During the night, Gladiolus will speak with Noctis about the "Liege of the Lake". Accept his challenge and in the morning go to the "Tour" location.

If you fail this quest, you will have to restart the whole camp scene over again. This is partly why the quest is so annoying. It makes it easier to just give up in this case. If you happen to get the Liege of the Lake to bite and begin the fishing sequence, and then fail. The Liege will no longer be found and you will have to restart the camp sequence again as well. Save your game at the campsite and note this is a good way to fill your magic flasks. Also, I got my fishing skill up to a maximum of 10 here and that may help catch the big prize.Know you can purchase several fishing leisure goods from the Regalia or the shop right near the marker. Most importantly you need Dragon's Beard, Malboro Stinker, Nereid reel and Death Spin. All of these goods could be expensive, especially after losing the tour several times. That is why you should practice catching some of the smaller fish in this pond first. Actually catching a fish is probably the only way to gain experience points for the skill.

When you think you are ready you should know that this Liege does not appear on the mini-map. The player must throw the rod near other fish or clear out the entire pond. For starters, I recommend clearing the pond. This will give you skill points to fishing. It also sharpens your actual fishing skills. The Liege can be seen in the murky waters, but he disappears if you fail to get him to bite. In that case, you must cast the rod again. It is really tough, getting the Liege to bite is even a problem at times. Make sure you are using the Stinker Malboro lure or the Malbodoom lure. Both of these lures help attract Vesper Gar. Vesper Gar is the type of fish that the Liege is, except it is huge.

When or if you actually get the Liege of the Lake to bite it all comes down to your skill. This fish is a huge increase in difficulty level. It is considered a super rare fish and when you eventually catch it you will see why. Don't give up and try hard remember if you lose it you must restart the tour again. The biggest tip I can give you that I learned along the way is too only reel in when there is no tension on the line. It get's harder as you get closer. You start to have less time in-between your reeling frames. The player is going to have to watch not only the amount of line that is left but the fish health meter too. Focusing often on the screen at the actually fish is important to see what it is doing. If it is pulling left, you must pull left as well and it is easier to reel the fish in at this time.

When the fish leaps out of the pond into the air you can almost get some free points against the fishes health meter. This is important because every little bit counts. The biggest factor is time and the line. The line is the most important because if it runs out, you will snap and lose the fish. This would result in starting over the entire quest.Time could be your friend to most gamers, if you are short on time you should know on average this fish takes around 7-10 minutes to catch. Patience is another factor because of the amount of time it takes to land in the Liege. Finally, you have to pay attention to the rumble of your controller. If the control is rumbling strongly than it is probably a bad idea to be reeling in. If things feel smooth and all other things mentioned are in-sync begin to reel in. One final note, try and take it easy on the R2 or reel button, going too hard will cause more tension on the line. Overall you will lose more of the dragon's beard faster that way. You will get the Bahamut lure for completing this quest, which is probably the best lure in the game and you can never lose it. You will also acquire the meat of the fish, but I am not sure what its use is just yet. Stay tuned for more.

Up Close and Personal : 

If you sleep at the campsite right near the Alstor slough where the huge lake is and the large Catoblepas you will acquire this quest. Prompto will schedule Noctis to wake up early in the morning with him. When you awake the Tour will begin. First we must find some mushrooms, to do this stay in the vicinity of the green circle and marker. You can only walk so go slow, it is a small area but be sure to cover all the ground. Once you get near a mushroom, Prompto will go over and pick it up, do this three times. When done head to the marker to shoot the photo. You have a choice of 4 unique poses, I picked the ultimate pose which is a bit silly, having Noctis put his hand over his face like royalty or a movie star. I would like to see the others but you only get one chance here which is why I shared ! Well, there is always new game +. Afterward, run away from the Catoblepas and enjoy the friendly conversation with the cheerful Prompto to complete the quest. You will gain the Vintage camera filter when complete as well as 20 AP. 

A Flower for Iris : 

If you sleep at the campsite called Lambeth Haven which is in the Cleigne Region all the way west of Lucis near Rock of Ravatough. The player will encounter another tour during the camping scene. Gladiolus will ask Noctis to pick some flowers for his sister Iris. He wants Noctis to deliver them to Iris and it is a nice little scene and quest. Find the flowers but do not leave the vicinity of the area until you do. Once you have the flowers the quest will come to a halt. You can then later head to Cape Caem and deliver the flowers to Iris for another cut scene. After the cute little scene you will also gain another Moogle Charm.

Training Missions :

These missions can be selected at camp before you actually decide to go to sleep for the night. You will battle your teammates and if you do defeat them in battle you will gain AP (ability points). The Final challenge is very tough and you should be at least level 85+ to attempt for starters. For above average or veteran players this may be easier so don't go by me too much. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Photo Ops :

These quests are spur of the moment quest that can gain a little experience and possibly more. Prompto will see sights along the journey and request the Prince to take pictures. If you don't agree you can always go back to the quest later. However, this may possibly change the dialogue in the game with Prompto.

-----------------------------------------------
. Photo Ops - The Disc .
. Photo Ops - The Ranch .
. Photo Ops - The Bar .
. Photo Ops - Beacon .
. Photo Ops - Dock .
. Photo Ops - Mountain .
. Photo Ops - Quay .
. Photo Ops - Palace .
. Photo Ops - The Crag .
. Photo Ops - Lakefront .
. Photo Ops - Park .
------------------------------------------------
Go directly to the marker and take a picture of the Caucus Disc and receive 250 experience points. Next head to Chocobo ranch and get a good shot with your buddies and the Chocobo's,remember you can store photos for your collection. Also, you will receive 250 experience points. At the Bar in Altissia city, you can take a photo with Prompto and gain some more experience points. At Cape Caem area take a picture of the beacon and lighthouse for a photo that is worthy of keeping. You will also gain some more experience points.

The Dock is located in Altissia, take a photo at the marker location and finish the quest while gaining some experience points. You may come across the mountain quest during your travels down the south road from Hammerhead. Take the picture for 250 experience points and complete the quest. Head to Galdin Quay next and a little bit north of the town the quest should come up if your exploring the area. Shoot the picture with the crew and complete the quest gaining 250 experience points.

The Palace Photo Ops quest may only occur when you are wearing the Kingly Raiment attire on Noctis. You will receive the Kingly Raiment once you have completed the game. After Prompto asking to take the photo, head to the marker location. Take the picture of Noctis and the party and you will receive 400 experience points. The Crag picture will reward you with 300 experience points and is located at the parking spot directly south of the Kellbass Grasslands. The Lakefront photo operations will trigger near the Alstor Slough campsite. Complete it for some experience points as well. As for the park photo operations side quest all the player must do is head towards the giant statue of what seems to be Leviathan. Take a picture there and this will earn you seem experience points and complete the quest.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Altissia Quests :

-------------------------------------------------
. Symbol Of Peace .
-------------------------------------------------

This is a very easy quest to handle and it is a slightly intriguing part of the story. In Altissia ride the Gondola's until you reach the biggest merchant section in the town. Once there you may overhear two women talking about the Oracle's wedding dress on display. This will trigger the quest, from that point, just head to the marker. Many people are looking at the dress and they are all very happy. Noctis and the crew will have some dialogue here as well. It This is one of the few quests in the game that actually go back to the main story. Several people are complaining about there being "boring sidequests" in sense of the story. I can't argue they are a bit bland but it is not a game breaker at all to me.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wiz Chocobo Post Quests :


--------------------------------------------------
. Friends Of a Feather .
. Where the Wild Chocobos are .
. Bird On the Brink .
. A Feathery Feast .
. Savior of the Species .
--------------------------------------------------

The friends of a feather quest will link directly into the hunt for Deadeye quest. Completing it will allow the use of Chocobo riding in the game. To initiate the quest make sure to talk to Wiz and select Hunts then pick the Deadeye quest. Deadeye quest is part of the main walkthrough in this guide, but I will go over it again here quickly. You must head to the marker first, then begin sneaking around Deadeye. Keep him in sight but be at a distance or you will have to start over. It is a pretty long trek, but eventually, you will make it to his den. Be sure to pick up the voretooth bristles along the way. You can mix these as a catalyst with your magic flasks and create some nice spells for the battle with Deadeye.

Once you are at Deadeye he is susceptible to fire damage. You can also use fire spells to blow up the fire barrels and deal more damage to Deadeye. It is a bit tricky to do so, for me at least due to not being able to lock-on properly. Either way, I suggest being above-recommended game level for this, as he could be tough. Once he is defeated, return to Wiz and you will be able to use Chocobo's. You will be rewarded for the hunt completion as well as Friends of a Feather completion. Bird on the Brink is an easy marker quest and all you will need is to have a regular potion handy for the Chocobo. Once you locate the wounded Chocobo give the bird the potion and then return to Wiz at Chocobo Post. He will reward you with 1000 experience points and the next quest.

A Feathery Feast requires getting an Aegir Root from near Galind Quay food spot location on the map. These roots grow at various locations through-out the Leide region and are even commonly sold at certain shops. Once you have one return to Wiz at Chocobo Post and he will reward you with a new item on his menu. Eat the meal and Ignis will learn a new recipe as well. 

Savior of the Species will lead you to a marker with some enemies and a chocobo egg unhatched. Defeat the enemies than go for the egg. Bring the egg back to Wiz at the Wiz Chocobo Post. You must complete some hunts to finish the quest as it will eventually hatch. Once the quest and hunts are completed you will finish the wiz chocobo post quest line and gain some Gil and Experience as a reward.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Talcott Quests :

--------------------------------------------------
. Crazy About Cactuars .
. A Cactuar Of Wood .
. A Cactuar Of Mortar .
---------------------------------------------------
You may have found some Cactuar models at shops on your journey. This is what you do with them. Once Talcott reaches Cape Caem you can find him in the Cape Caem Hideaway House. Talk to him and the quests marker will pop up with each towns Cactuar vendor location. Purchase them all and you will make Talcott very happy as well as the party. You will receive experience points and get to see all four Cactuars on the table in Cape Caem near Talcott.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Living Off the Land : ( Caem Carrot Quest )

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Living Off the Land .
. Berried Memories .
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
When you reach Cape Caem and meet Iris you can eventually ask her to tend to the garden. This will open up the quest for you. Plant some seeds near the soil to the left. It will take a few days or quest/hunt completion for the carrots to grow. Once they grow a man will appear near the garden and he will purchase carrots from you in exchange for rare items. Giving him the first few carrots you find will complete the quest. It is not over from there, you can grow more carrots and collect more rare items from the man. You can grow more carrots overtime at a time as the game progresses. 

If you wish to get the Absorb Shield, Give the man four Caem Carrots and select the weapon option. The Absorb shield is nice and can absorb elemental energy from enemies like the drain lance and engine blade. Four more carrots and choosing weapons will get you the Force Stealer which is an elemental absorbing weapon just like the absorb shield. It can be upgraded by cid. Four more carrots will give the plunderer's which is a pair of daggers that can be upgraded just like the earlier mentioned weapons. These daggers will also absorb enemy elemental types and convert the energy to your elemancy.

Berried Memories links into the living off the land quest slightly. You need to start living off the land to complete Berried Memories. If you want to start Berried Memories talk to Coctura the chef at the restaurant inside Galdin Quay. Talk to Coctura after you reach Cape Caem to make things easier. When you receive the quest you will need to acquire Ulwaat Berries. These are great for a certain meal that we will talk about in the Ignis and Dishes section of this guide. To get the berries grow some Caem Carrots and give two of them to the man that collects the carrots in exchange for the Ulwaat Berries. Return to Coctura at Galdin Quay, and complete the quest. She will now serve a special dessert that gives the Mage Booster perk. It cost around 10,000 Gil if not more but it is worth checking out.

You will also acquire the Recipe for Ignis cookbook after eating it once, so it is worth it. Ignis will learn to cook memory lane pastry. This gives the mage booster perk which enhances your magic by a huge percentage. However, it lowers all other attacks to zero. This is nice if you feel like using spells and going pure mage. Finally, completing the quest will give three of all ingredients for Ignis to make this at camp once more. If you want to make it again, either eat it at Galdin Quay for the price or find the ingredients. The Ulwaat berries  can be purchased in Cape Caem for carrots. Fine Cleigne Wheat can be purchased at many shops in Cleigne. The sweet potato is a bit rare but as I was writing this I found out. Go to Leide area in Lucis on the map. From the west of Hammerhead you should see The Three Valleys. From the 3 valleys head north and growing along that small mountain should be some Leiden Sweet Potato. They probably grow in some more locations in Leide as well.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gladiolus Quests : 

--------------------------------------------
. A Need for Noodles .
. The Perfect Cup .
--------------------------------------------

When you reach the town of Lastallum you may see a Cup O Noodles stand selling Cup O Noodles. This is Gladiolus favorite food and will give him an experience boost when made at camp. Buying some from this stand will trigger the Need For Noodles quest and completion of it. It will lead into "The Perfect Cup" quest. This quest will have us killing off a Rouge Behemoth enemy that is level 35+. First talk to the man at the marker which is the restaurant in Lastallum. Afterwards, head for the Behemoth marker location and defeat it. Finally, head to the nearby campsite and cook the Behemoth round. Watch the cut scene where everyone promotes the truth about how great Cup O Noodles is to complete the quest. You will gain 4000 experience points as well as learn a new recipe for Ignis.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Holly Quests :  

-------------------------------------------------
. Steam Valve Inspection .
. Power to the Pylons .
-------------------------------------------------

This quest can be a little annoying as the marker puts you in the vicinity of the quest but does not show the exact locations. The area is pretty small and if you walk around you should at least trigger the window, stealing the past quest. Know that all the valves are blue and some do not have steam blowing out of them. There are 8 valves in total to check and I would try walking around the town rather than running as you might pass them. You will gain some Gil and experience points for completing the quest. You will also gain the next part of the Holly quest line.

Power to the Pylons can be slightly annoying. The marker will lead you to the vicinity of your objective. However, you will have to look for the only pylon with a ladder leading up in that area. They are usually close by to the marker so bring a Chocobo. Do this for all three of the pylon sub-quests. When you are done return to Holly in Lestallum for some Gil as well as the next quest and experience reward.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Randolph Quests : 

-----------------------------------------------------
. A Legend Is Born .
. Dreadful Legend .
. Legend wrapped in an Enigma .
------------------------------------------------------

Randolph can be found in Lastallum after you have completed the main quest line of the game. You should see a question mark appear on your map. Go and talk to him to receive your first quest of some of the best quests in the game ! Randolph will ask you to hunt the Bennu down, which is the giant bird we met at the start of the game. I have a full analysis written up in the BESTIARY section of this guide. For now just head to the marker and defeat the beast. Be warned he is tough and you may want to stock up on procurement items. When he is finished you will receive the Jet black beak. This is a key item you must give to Randolph who will than forge the Iron Duke weapon for you and your party.

Dreadful legend will lead us to a marker in the swamp area of the Vesperpool with a Malborodoom. This guy can be really tough because it's breath will inflict tons of status ailments on Noctis and the party. You should acquire a ribbon, or possibly two ribbons if not more. You can get these by trading in Oracle Ascension coins to the man at the restaurant in Altissia. They cost 40 Oracle Ascension Coins each. Alternatively, there is a Ribbon that can be acquired from one of the hunts in the game. One ribbon just being placed on Noctis was enough for me, although I was level 75 vs this 65 game recommended battle. I am not quite sure the best way to take down these Malborodoom's just yet, but will update it in the bestiary section soon enough. Thanks for your patience ! When you return to Randolph you will receive the Dragoon Lance, which looks identical to the Wyvern lance except more powerful. I will be updating with original artwork in this case :)

Legend wrapped in an Enigma will have us facing two deadly but cute Sir Tonberry Knights. They have a really cool jedi-like light saber attack as well as the Tradition knife stab that is also extremely dangerous. The parry and counter attacks are your friend in this battle. Try and parry as much as you can as well as you some heavy duty high potency magic spells. If your having too much trouble use your summon or even Carbuncle buff by setting the game to easy. Finally have a safety bit as one of your primary accessory slot choices. When you return to Randolph you will be rewarded with the Ziedrich shield. This shield increases damage after using a blink.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Hunts :

 
Howling For Hunger	Hammerhead	Daytime	1 star	 
Varmints of the wastelands	Hammerhead	Daytime	1 star	 
Gorgers in the Dust	Hammerhead	All times	1 star	 
Raindrops in the Night	Hammerhead .	Nighttime	2 stars	 
Wild Beauties 	Hammerhead	Daytime	2 stars	 
Bounty Hunted Beauties	Hammerhead	Daytime	2 stars	 
Rookie Hunter Tradgedy	Hammerhead	All times	3 stars	 
The Pride of the King	Hammerhead	All times	3 stars	 
Serpent of the Abyss	Hammerhead	All times	4 stars	 
Lonley Rumblings in Longwythe	Hammerhead	All times	5 stars	 
Mineside Mischeif Makers	Longwythe	Nighttime	1 star	 
Hunter Slaying Herd	Longwythe 	Daytime	1 stars	 
Squish the Squirmers	Longwythe	Nighttime	2 stars	 
Cranky Crustaceans	Longwythe	All times	2 stars	 
Sting in the tail	Longwythe	All times	2 stars	 
Beast over Brawn	Longwythe	All times	2 stars	 
In the drylands it rains spines	Longwythe	Day time	3 stars	 
A Fistful Of Gil	Longwythe	Nighttime	4 stars	Must complete Balouve Mines. 
Peace to the beach	Galdin Quay	All times	2 stars	 
The Gourmands of Vannath	Galdin Quay	All times	2 stars	 
Stealers of Lives	Galdin Quay	Nighttime	2 stars	 
Footfalls in the dark	Galdin Quay	Nighttime	2 stars	 
A Nightmare came by ferry	Galdin Quay	Nighttime	2 stars	 
Galloping Garulas	Coernix Station - Alstor	2 stars	 
Beast wallow in the wetlands	Coernix Station - Alstor	2 stars	 
Untamed wild horses	Coernix Station - Alstor	2 stars	 
Reign Triumphant	Coernix Station - Alstor	3 stars	 
The Rogues of Rydielle Ley	Coernix Station - Alstor	3 stars	 
Marsh Madness ! The Giant Awakens 	Coernix Station - Alstor	3 stars	 
Red in tooth and claw	Wiz Chocobo Post	2 stars	 
A Behemoth Undertaking	Wiz Chocobo Post	2 stars	 
Exorcism in Nebula Wood	Wiz Chocobo Post	2 stars	 
Thunder in them dar hills	Wiz Chocobo Post	2 stars	 
A most behemoth undertaking	Wiz Chocobo Post	4 stars	 
Hammer the cannibals	Cauthess Rest Area	3 stars	 
Things from the past	Cauthess Rest Area	3 stars	 
Baby snatchers	Cauthess Rest Area	3 stars	 
Demonic Orchestra	Cauthess Rest Area	4 stars	 
Cruel giant of Duscae	Cauthess Rest Area	4 stars	 
Fiend of the fallgrove	Cauthess Rest Area	4 stars	 
Devils Cry Curses	Cauthess Rest Area	5 stars	 
Horned Hunting Hazards	Taelpar Rest Area	2 stars	 
Hunters of Secallum Pass	Taelpar Rest Area	3 stars	 
Reclaiming Schier Heights	Taelpar Rest Area	3 stars	 
A Roaring in the Night	Taelpar Rest Area	3 stars	 
Old Denziens of the Woods	Taelpar Rest Area	4 stars	 
Avenge the Anglers	Lestallum Tostwell Grill	2 stars	 
Ruler of the brave skies	Lestallum Tostwell Grill	3 stars	 
Off with their heads!	Lestallum Tostwell Grill	3 stars	 
Disquieted Queens	Lestallum Tostwell Grill	3 stars	 
The Web weaving princesses	Lestallum Tostwell Grill	3 stars	 
In the heat haze of glory	Lestallum Tostwell Grill	4 stars	 
Secure the Mountain pass	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	2 stars	 
Cool Callatein Mist	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	2 stars	 
To sting in anger	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	2 stars	 
Help needed in EXINERIS	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	2 stars	 
To catch a frog	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	2 stars	 
Long necks on the plains	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	2 stars	 
They came back from the mountain	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	3 stars	 
Rainstorm duel! Poison frog of wenneth	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	3 stars	 
Acquit Not evil	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	3 stars	 
No stopping the great stink	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	3 stars	 
Trembling Killers	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	4 stars	 
An omen crawls upon the ground	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	4 stars	 
Bones  seek an offering	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	5 stars	 
Dead general strikes down the king	Lestallum Surgate's Beanmine	5 stars	 

 
Bewitched Blade Stains the Waters	Altissia	Nighttime	*2 stars
Nightmare Upon The Water	Altissia	Nighttime	*2 stars
Ill weeds grow in the night	Altissia	Nighttime	*2 stars
Back Alley Spook	Altissia	Nighttime	*2 stars
Case of the Disappearing Hunters	Altissia	Nighttime	*2 stars
Will - O - the wisp's out of town 	Altissia	Nighttime	*3 stars
A Lost Painting 	Altissia 	Nighttime	*3 stars
Tourist fade into the night	Altissia	Nighttime	*3 stars
The Tragic Facts 	Altissia	Nighttime	*3 stars
King of the great escape 	Altissia	Nighttime	*4 stars


*******************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
For Completing the first 5 hunts you will receive an accessory item. You will also reach rank two allowing you to do more hunts. In rank 2 you must complete 15 hunts to reach next rank. You may replay hunts for experience points and loot.

To Rank up to level #3 you will need to acquire 15 rank points. Do the next 8 hunts shown in the table to acquire rank #3. Once you are Rank #3 you can do Rank #3 Hunts. You will also acquire the Heliodor Bracelet which increases STRENGTH by 40 attribute points.

You will need to acquire 30 hunting points to reach rank #4 and get those available hunts. Notice each star * by the hunt. This represents how many points you will get to your hunter rank. Stars only take affect the first time you complete a hunt. The Reward for reaching rank #4 is a Ruby Bracelet.

Also, some of these Hunts require other in-game events to become available. They will be listed in the grid above. Some become available after completing others and finally some require being a specific hunter rank.
********************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
Weapons :
Royal Arms :

-------------------------

Royal arms can be equipped in all four of Noctis weapon slots. This is really nice for making a spec or build with Noctis. You can enhance your statistic effects even further with accessory items and meals if not even more ! So for example, you want to go for magic or pure mage. For Royal Arms, you should probably equip Trident of the Oracle and Scepter of the Pious. However, do not use them as your main weapon because of the Hit Point loss. Instead, focus on your elemancy and one other weapon of choice. Eat a meal with the Magebooster perk for even more Magic output. Finally, for magic flasks, combine sheep's milk with the element of your choice. It is an easy and cheap recipe that can get you six casts of a spell stored in one magic flask, with a decent potency.

The Sword of the Wise :
You will acquire this during the Legacy quest of the main questline. It is in the Royal Tomb and is not hard to find if you are following the story. This is a Royal Arm weapon. These weapons will deplete Noctis health when used. They are more powerful for the most part than basic weaponry. It seems they also have hidden or special functions as well. This blade, in particular, devastates foes as stated with first strikes or pre-emptive strikes. I also noted that you may warp to your enemy and attack once every 3-4 seconds while wielding only this blade. This special warp does not consume MP ( magic points ). It may also not do as much damage as a traditional warp attack.

Axe of the Conqueror :
This weapon is pure power and will still take away from your health meter. The weapon increases attack by a huge amount and also brings your defense down to ZERO when you use it. You will take an absolute beating if you do not use the weapon properly. The best way I found to use this one is when an enemy is incapacitated. If an enemy can not move or attack you should quickly follow up with this weapon to deal brutal devastating blows. Note that you can really overpower your enemy regardless with this weapon. It may even be viable to knock down an enemy with it, heal up quick then finish it. In that case, you may be eating more potions. 

I also noted the Axe of the Conqueror having the down motion warp strike. This can be extremely powerful and even a major positive vs certain enemies. However if trying to break a specific appendage it may throw the player off the target completely. You often miss a lot with this attack. The start up time to actually swing the axe is also really slow leaving you wide open to attacks. However, there is still the huge strength statistic boost. You also only lose the defense -80 when actually wielding it in combat.

Swords Of the Wanderer :

These blades are stand alone swords held in both hands. They also can connect together during combat forming a devastating double edged blade. A Very nice looking item with pretty unusual statistic boost. These can be found during the sword in the waterfall quest. You will have to complete the dungeon which can be a bit tough and defeat a wave of Mindflayer's at the end of the dungeon. Also, note you can not save in dungeons so be prepared before entering and be double careful on the RONIN enemies as well as the hidden arachnid.

These blades since the patch have a 3% chance to critically hit. They have 153 base attack damage and add +50 to Vitality as well as +50 to magic defense or spirit. These blades are fast striking and will combine into one blade during certain weapon attacks. When they are transformed into the single version of the weapon attacks are more powerful. ( more to come )

Sword of the Mystic :

I enjoy using this one greatly. It offers a nice boost in statistics among one really cool other feature. Like the sword of the wise has the free warp attacks. The sword of the mystic will shoot out a barrage of blue projectiles right before you warp stripe. These missiles seem to deal a percentage of the damage your attack statistic is at. However, I have not tested it enough so I will keep everyone updated right here. Finally, this item is located in chapter 4 after you reach the end of the Disc of Cauhcuss on the way to the Archaean Titan and meteor.
Scepter Of the Pious :


This Scepter can be found in the Malmalam Thicket dungeon. It is a very linear dungeon that you may first hear about right before chapter 8. If you get out on your All set to sail trip you can start the dungeon. You may even save it for later, The game recommends level 35 and I recommend at least level 40 for the boss and the enemies along the way. It should make it a breeze. See the sidequest and main quest section of this guide for more on Malmalam Thicket Dungeon.

The Scepter is my current favorite Royal Arms weapon. It is somewhat strange as it turns into another weapon such as an axe, except in a beam of light form. It also turns into a trident made of white and blue light and then, of course, its holy scepter form. This weapon boosts your magic statistic by 150. This is a really nice perk especially if you're in the mood to use magic. In fact, if your planning on using magic you should surely be using this Scepter of the Pious along with a nice Talisman accessory. The weapon also will increase dark resistance by +50% even while just equipped rather than in use. You can crank up your magic power and destroy several mid-level enemies with one spell if your using the Magemaster boost. Magemaster boost can be acquired from eating a certain meal ( see Ignis dishes section ). It has a base damage attack of 237 which is pretty powerful for it being magic based weaponry.

After using the weapon often and doing some research I have learned that the Scepter of the Pious actually deals HOLY damage to enemies and is one of the few weapons in the game that does so. This may make it ideal against Iron and Red Giant enemies ( needs testing ). Remember the weapon also forms into several different weapons with every attack. All of these weapons will not only count as HOLY damage but they will increase in strength based upon your overall magic damage output. In conclusion you will want to use this weapon against enemies weak to light. You can see if they are weak to light by using the bestiary below. Also light resistance is shown on an analyzed enemy as the last icon in the row of the targeted enemy. 

Mace of the Fierce :
Awesome weapon ! It looks great packs a ton of power and is relatively fun to wield in combat. The quest to acquire it is also very entertaining. I suggest once your around 35-40 head to the Rock of Ravatogh and scale the mountain to get this. It does have several downsides, however. The first is that it is really slow striking and the second being you take -50% to bullet damage. This means it is a no go against Imperial Forces most of the time. I wish i used it on Lord Ravus rather than the Trident of the Oracle. I will give it a shot on my second play through. It reminds me of the mace of Molag Bal a little bit from Elder Scrolls series SKYRIM.

If you are having trouble acquiring the weapon, raise your level higher. Also sorry for not typing it out a third time but the quest explanation is up on this guide already. See Rock of Ravatogh side quest. On the positive side the weapon packs a hell of a punch ! The base attack is 334 and that can scale with strength accessory items. It also gives a huge 300 + to maximum HP and you can wear the assist suit with this to get 800 + HP. It is a nice option if you wish to be like a tank.

Trident of the Oracle : 
Pretty solid weapon, I presume that the decoys do an attack or at least fool your enemy for a slight moment into thinking you're at that location.  You will acquire this during the main story line on the train from Gentiana. This weapon will increase your Magic Points by +60 ( MP ). This is great for traveling around a bit quicker on foot. You can use your warp more often and even get through annoying terrain easier. I am a fan of the air warp attack. It launches Noctis extremely high into the air. While in the air he will spawn a trident down onto the enemy, leaving a decoy in the strike area. This decoy can be confirmed by other players to deal damage to enemies it touches. It is slightly debated whether the decoy actually distracts an enemy or targeted foe.

This weapon is great for fighting Bussenmand enemies especially in close quarters. The bussenmand comes up close and personal with their attacks and this makes your initial strike and it's decoy usually hit the enemy several times. This can also result in a knockdown making it most likely the best choice vs a Bussenmand enemy. Hold circle nay-sayers will be let down !


Katana of the Warrior : 
This is a nice weapon that you will acquire during one of the better parts of the main quest-line. This weapon offers +25% to Fire, Lightning and Ice attacks. However, it will lower your resistance to dark attacks by -50%. In addition, you will gain 100 points into Spirit which determines your overall magic defense. This would raise the +25% or stack with other elemental resistance accessory gear, attire or weapons. Know that you can equip 4 Royal Arms at once, one for each slot on Noctis. I am learning from myself and other players that sometimes Royal Arms are better to be used to the constant statistic bonus. Later you can focus a build or load-out idea with those statistics in mind. 

This weapon is also pretty powerful, and I like the move set on it. The warp strike is just cool, it has a slow start up, but it packs some damage. I have to test all these weapons a bit more. The game is still really new so I am sure we will all come up with ideas. Currently confused about many stats and attack percentages in the game. How they work, when to use them are low-level runs possible and more. I am going to try and cover all this stuff plus speed-running so stay tuned !

I was using the weapon a bit more today. I realized that it can consume your entire MP bar with a warp string combination. You can do this by locking onto an enemy with R1 and than just hold the Triangle button. It consumes all your magic points and your going to lose health, but it is a sweet attack and fun. It is also pretty powerful. So i combined some energy power drinks and mixed and matched other ideas. Super restorative is an option to regain health while you are channeling the combination. Power EX drink which you can purchase at the Regalia later in the game is nice too, do to the +100 attack point bonus. Magi-tek booster can let you string even longer, So the best overall combination would be Magi-Tek booster and Super restorative on a tough boss or solo enemy. Boosting your attack points with other Royal Arms weapons. It's not the best move in the game , but it is fun to test with.

Sword of the Father : 

You will get this sword during the main quest line. It has a pretty low attack compared to other Royal Arms weapons at 141. However, after warp striking it will "tick" for two more hits from your phased decoy. This results in triple the damage most of the time. Sometimes when using regular strikes the decoy will also hit an extra time or two. The weapon also has a decent speed of use when attacking, compared to much slower weapons like Axe of the Conqueror and Mace of the Fierce. Still not the fastest weapon, it is about near the middle in terms of attack speed. I almost noticed losing a bit less Hit Points when wielding this blade, I could be mistaken. After chaining a long combination with circle, Noctis will hold the sword strongly and come down for a finishing attack which can break and deal bonus damage. I am not sure if this weapon consumes less Magic Points ( MP ), than other weapons. Magic Point consumption is worth looking into to be sure, it may differ on all Royal Arms weapons. This weapon will give a +100 strength increase and +100 magic damage increase

This weapon is great for breaking Red Giants especially when you pack more strength enhancing items in combination with this weapon. The reason is that the sword of the father's warp attack will let you linger in the air for a while. If you warp strike a red giant's chest you can follow up with several more attacks this way directly on it's chest possibly causing a break. The higher your strength statistic the easier it will be to break an appendage.

Bow of the Clever : 

This weapon is found in the Balouve mines, which is an optional dungeon to complete after beating the games main quest line. It has a tough enemy boss that is a Ronin variation called Aramusha. He is capable of a nasty instant death attack. If you have a safety bit equip it for the battle. The weapon is quite beautiful to look at both on menu and battle screen. It is ranged and you can fire off plenty of shots without losing too much health. The warp strike is far more powerful and closes in on the enemy at close range. The problem is your putting your self up for damage potential from the enemies and losing HP ( hit points ) in the process. This is due to it being a Royal Arms, however I noticed more success just using basic attack from range and lower HP loss. 

This weapon is a good option for the "choker" accessory items. Blue,Red,Green any choker accessory will regenerate your hit points by a %. I am pretty sure they stack, however I am not sure if they regenerate your maximum HP. I am pretty sure they don't but will edit this section if so. Overall it is a nice weapon to add to your Royal Arms and weapon arsenal. Nice touch by Square-Enix as I didn't see this one coming. I was expecting more melee type weaponry, but I am surprised and glad at the same time.

Star of the Rouge :  

A very cool weapon that is slighted by what seems to be lack of overall power. I can't even find much strength in this weapon against small air enemies like Thunder-Roc's. I actually even found the bow of the clever more powerful. Maybe I am just not setting up the right skills with it ? Regardless it is still pretty cool and it is a giant Shruriken very similar to the weapon Yuffie Kisargi used in Final Fantasy VII. You can acquire it after beating the Treant boss at the Myrlwood Dungeon. Myrlwood is located by the house of hexes all the way on the western side of the map in Cleigne.

Sword of the Tall :

The sword of the tall is found off of the mighty Jabberwock boss of the Costlemark Tower dungeon. The dungeon is rather difficult and has a maze puzzle that leads to the boss Jabberwock. I have written about this dungeon in the side-quests section of this guide. As a reminder you should navigate the platform area knowing it is a puzzle. Look at your map and try not to go in the same directions that you have previously failed in. If you fail you will fight a red giant and some goblin type enemies. Failing twice results in two red giants and a 3rd time will have them both plus a Naganita enemy. You can also gain a ton of experience points but you may die or use tons of procurement items in the process.

The weapon will appear after beating the Jabberwock. You should return to the dungeon entrance and than equip it. This weapon has a base attack of 518 attack damage. It also adds +200 to maximum ( HP ). You will lose -30% to your spirit which is your overall magic defense. You will lose -40% to Fire,Ice,Lightning and Dark resistances. This is a huge loss to magic damage combined and one way of countering the affects is using a pair of Genji Gloves as an accessory.

I have not tested the weapon too much but it does act like a chainsaw slightly. It even revs up like a chainsaw and you can hold down the circle button for a continuous stream of grinding attacks with the sword of the tall. This weapon also has the highest attack of any Royal arms and does tons of damage on a successfully ranged warp strike. It also stays pretty level when warp striking hitting most enemies low to the ground. If an enemy has a high appendage like the Midgardsormr's head it is much harder to land an appendage strike. This is mainly due to the nature of the warp strike and the lack of "air" attacks when wielding the weapon. In conclusion you want to hit targets low to the ground.

Some information that I read in a post on the gamefaqs message boards by a user Carnif3xAng3L. Angel states that the sword does AoE ( Area of effect ) attack/damage on a successful warp-strike. I have not tested the weapon much in packs so personally can not confirm at the moment. The serrated blade can also stack up to ten hits at once on an enemy also adding to damage with every successful hit from 1-10. The warp strike performs 10 or more hits and finally you get .50 multiplier to each attack on a break. Once again I will test all these out soon. If incorrect this will be removed. If not thanks to Carnif3xAng3L as this was his post. It is appreciated and I hope you enjoy being in the guide thank you ! 

Shield of the Just :

This one can be located very early in the game if you know where to find it. Many speedrunners have also been making use of this royal arms because of it. It gives a huge boost to defense and especially your maximum HP by +1000! You can find it near the Daurell Caverns entrance and near Dory of the Deep. A better location would be west of the cauthess disc and in the Thommel's Glade area on the world map of Lucis. You can attack with this weapon and even block with it as well. You will also gain +10% resistance to all elements including ballistic resistance for bullets and missiles against Imperial Forces.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Ring of the Lucii : 

The ring of the Lucii, is not considered a Royal Arms. However, I feel it is related to them in a way and will be put in this section unless a future similar item is added in addition to the ring. This ring let's Noctis perform three very powerful "arcana" spells. Death, which can drain the life force from enemies and is very awesome. Alterna, which can devastate groups of enemies quickly. Holy which is used by dodging attacks and burns enemies with holy fire dealing light damage. The ring is awesome despite a large amount of bashing on the web. I also feel that SquareEnix can make more rings or better yet, arcana type items with more different spells and animations. Hopefully we will get something like this ( and grenades ! ) In the future of the games DLC.

Holy : 

This is not your typical Final Fantasy Holy spell. It would be nice to see something like that, but we do have the new holy fire addition. When you dodge an attack with the Ring of the Lucii equipped the enemy will be hit with light damage. This light damage is a blue fire that burns enemies for a little while over time. Similar to fire spells with it's ( DoT ) Damage over time. The difference is that Holy from the ring of the Lucii deals light damage rather than pure elemental fire damage. In this case enemies weak to light attacks as shown sometimes on the enemy analysis sub-screen, will take more damage.

It is a very fun spell to use, I especially like to use it against bomb enemies. You can dodge their self-erupting attack and even their basic attacks. A good idea to earn some high finesse rating on your report card is to dodge often. If you dodge while dealing holy damage against the bombs at the same time, you can wipe them out pretty easily and it is also amusing.

Death : [ Life Drain ] 

This is one of the most epic functions in the game in my opinion. People seem to complain about it often. I find it to be really fun with an awesome animation and plenty of uses. This is a great way to farm lesser enemies fast. It even works on some tougher enemies and if low on health you can get some life back. Say there is a red giant with Imperial troops around him. The red giant can be tough, so instead of using tons of curing potions switch to the Ring of Lucii. Use the death ability with circle button and hold it on the troops. Watch as they de-animate or have their life force visually sucked out of them. After each enemy goes down you will receive some health for the drain, as well as a dead troop in result. This is a good way to stay alive if your fighting a larger enemy with minions, which is why I used the Red Giant as a prime example.

The ability is very smooth handling as well. It feels great with the controller and watching it the same time on the big screen is even better. I really hope they add more Arcana in the game as I found it to be very nice indeed. I will keep updating the bestiary often, as I test out "death" on more enemies and let you know where it works and where it does not. ( See bestiary).

Alterna : 

This is the power-house ability of the Ring of the Lucii. It will consume all of your current magic points ( MP ) in your mana bar/pool. However, it works like a dark black hole or gravity spell. It will suck in and absorb many enemy types, size does not seem to be a factor. Level however may be a factor or just the idea of certain enemies being resistant to Arcana and specifically the Alterna command. The scene when it is cast runs very smooth and you control it in real time. A cone of energy will appear as well as floating particles in the sky. Glass will eventually shatter as an effect and the spell begins to consume its wrath upon the areas around it.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weapons : (Continued)
Machinery :

-----------------------

If you played Final Fantasy III on the Super Nintendo then you would know and be really happy that this item has returned. Along with other machinery type items, this one made me very pleased. Prompto is the only other character that can use machinery besides Noctis. I like using them with Noctis because this is my current favorite weapon class. The weapon can not do a warp attack. It has two main functions and each piece of machinery has a secondary fire. On the bio blaster, you can use the standard shot. When you press the triangle button you can release poison gas in a large radius of the battlefield. This attack devastates enemies weak to poison. It may also be very useful clearing out smaller weaker enemies quickly when you are on the hunt for items. 

After using this weapon a bit more, it might be better suited on Prompto. The ticking poison damage is nice almost all the time. This includes even on bosses as I have noticed many enemies are affected by poison in this game. It's just a perk make it his secondary weapon if anything. You can also upgrade this weapon for more power with Cid's help. First, you need a dynamo which can be found of Magi-Tek robots the large silver ones. I will get the correct information soon enough stay tuned.

You can upgrade the Bio-Blaster to a real nice Bio-Blaster +. It deals way more damage than the basic. It actually triples in damage from the basic version. You can acquire it by giving a Dynamo to Cid in Hammer Head. After completing some quests and waiting a few days, he will create this item or upgrade it for you. Dynamo can be found in the treasure chest near the Midgarsormr snake boss. They are also a drop from Gray Magi-Tek robots. These enemies will invade you a bit later in the game, so you shouldn't have a problem finding a Dynamo too much.

You can find this during the 2nd chapter of the game. In the dungeon or tomb of the Axe of the Conqueror. Be sure to search the entire map as it is simple blue glowing loot on the ground. Once you acquire it you should check it out. It will be useful against the enemies in this dungeon especially the arachnid enemy. The weapon auto-fires crossbow bolts repeatedly it also has a laser lock on sight so it is very accurate. The base function remains as well and you can not warp strike with this weapon.

This weapon is especially good when you are at a range. It is even better against enemies you should keep range against, such as Necromancers. I took down the three necromancers from the " Things from the Past " hunt quite easily with the Auto-Crossbow Plus. To get the plus version of this weapon you will need to farm or find a Cactuar needle. You can farm these off of the Gigantuar enemy later on in a specific in-game hunt objective. Alternatively, you may find one much earlier as pink glowing loot. Go to the vesper pool area of the map and there will be two chest that spawn to the south. The one most western has a cactuar needle always.



This is the most powerful of all the machinery items thus far. The problem is that you must get in really close too use properly. Also, you can still be knocked down when using it. The best idea I came up with was to either use a blizzard spell on a pack of enemies then follow up with this quickly. A Gravitational pull would work as well, whether it be a spell or one of Prompto's techniques. Anything that can get enemies either stopped in their tracks and grouped up will make this wreak havoc. It can also be used when an enemy is marked vulnerable for example I used it on Dead Eye when he fell down and it dealt massive damage even without being upgraded. Remember all machinery items can be upgraded by Cid with the right parts/tools. This can be found during the main quest off of the first Magi-Tek boss.

You can find this inside one of the offices in Fort Vaullery. During the Engaging the Empire quest you can get it. However, you may be in a rush to complete the quest or so busy with the enemies you forget. In that case, you can return here at any time later to pick it back up. Remember to check all the office buildings it is possibly located in the north east corner of the fort. Armored Assassin enemies have a very rare chance to drop it as well. The Patria has a huge chance to drop the weapon but that is towards the end of the game. You can upgrade this through Cid with a Hydraulic Cylinder which becomes common later in the game.

The weapon releases a purple gravitational field around the enemy. It is great against smaller forces for stacking them together. Imperial troops can get bunched up quite easily with this weapon and then hit with a blizzard spell. In this case, it would be easy to hit them all at once and have a clean victory. I still need to test this weapon a bit more. I would like to see if it can take out certain enemies with just a cast or two. Remember it has the basic shot as well. The basic shot can be "held" by holding the circle button and released  at the right time to target enemies more efficiently. The gravitational field attack will consume magic points ( MP ). It also has a slow active and start-up time. This weapon is ideal for Prompto, however, the Bio Blaster on Prompto is the best choice thus far at least. You can still use this on Noctis however, it is not very efficient and this is coming from various other players including myself.

It is still a fun weapon to use and it is more fun grouping Imperial Troops into a frost ball of doom ! Try it for yourself there is still much about this game we do not know and it would be a nice addition here or even elsewhere on the web. Overall damage on the "plus" version of this weapon is around 375 on an estimate.

This weapon has a hidden affect that can stun some enemies. This includes boss enemies and major enemies like the Bennu. The weapon has pretty good damage for the basic shot and the special Noise Blaster function is very cool. You can find this one at Fort Vaullery in one of the office shacks as blue glowing loot. You will come to this area during the main story line so you can get it now or later. If you decide to get it later it is easier because there will be less enemies and you should be a higher level. The Area of effect ( AoE) is pretty huge with this weapon as being so can damage tons of enemies at once.

In Final Fantasy VI this weapon was acquired at Figaro Castle. You can purchase it at the merchant right before meeting Edgar the King. It looked different in that game almost like a large siren on-top of a gun or some other machinery. It could also confuse enemies in FFVI where  the slight stun effect may have replaced it in this version of Final Fantasy. It had a nice effect on screen in FFVI however I got to admit I love the animation more in FFXV. It emits purple sonic waves in a huge radius and I love the hidden stun effect. The machinery is a classic and underrated comeback from FFVI and once again this one should be considered to be used on Prince Noctis if for fun-factor alone. Don't under estimate this one SquareEnix did an amazing job on it !

This one is located at the Formouth Imperial Base Garrison. It is inside one of the office buildings and is hard to pinpoint here so be sure to search well. The Drill Breaker is the most powerful piece of machinery pound for pound. Instead of moving in circles like the Circular Saw this thing dives in head on to an enemy dealing massive damage. It is great for breaking appendages and also has a strong base firing attack. I haven't used it enough to give my full analysis but I enjoy all the machinery in this game. It would probably be best suited for Prompto but than you would lose the AoE poison effect of the Bio Blaster.  

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Two-Handed Swords :

-----------------------------------------

The Masamune weapon can be redeemed with day one purchase of Final Fantasy XV. Redeem it at your Xbox store or PSN store. It will arrive in your inventory under Two-Handed swords and has a base attack higher than starting weapons at 87. It also has a nice little perk that can deal extra damage to Uninjured foes. This makes it a good starting or first strike weapon. Might even be useful if you are good with pre-emptive warping strikes.

The Thunderbolt is a 345 base attack power two-handed sword. I like using it on Gladiolus and it will be an excellent help in the boss fight with Bandersnatch at Malmalthal Dungeon's end. You can find this on the Malmalthal dungeon path right near some bee enemy types. Make sure to pick it up and equip it for the upcoming boss fight in that area. It looks similar to the fire two-handed sword with some slight palette color swapping.

The Hyperion is a daemon slaying sword that can be purchased at two currently known locations. The first location is in Hammerhead, only at the games second to last chapter. The next location is at the Melacaid Hunter HQ ( Head Quarters ). The Cullness merchant will sell all the same daemon slaying items here for the same price. 

The Two-Handed sword is the basic starting equipment weapon for this weapon type class. It has the lowest of all attack powers and you will start the game with it in your inventory. The Warsword is the next level up. It can be purchased in Hammerhead off of Cullness sword and gun dealer for a little bit of Gil. The Claymore is the next level up and is quite expensive. I Suggest passing it by and getting the Hardedge instead for more power and saving you Gil. If you're out to collect everything you can purchase the Hardedge and the Claymore from the weapon dealer around the corner from the power plant in Lastallum. The skins on the hard edge are identical to the war sword and the claymore identical to the two-handed sword.

Iron Duke :

The Iron Duke is a very powerful two-handed sword that can be acquired off of the first Randolph quest. To acquire this you will need to have completed the games main story and than a quest marker which is Randolph will appear in Lastallum. Talk to him and he will give you the Legend if born quest. Go to the marker and slay the Bennu giant flying bird enemy. Afterward, return to Randolph and he will make this weapon for you. I would say it is best equipped on Gladiolus. Sadly it looks too similar to most other weapons in the game, which is why I made custom artwork for you all. There is plenty more of it in this guide and plenty more to come, I hope you all enjoy !

Dominator : 

This weapon is just about equal in power to the Iron Duke. The one catch is that it is more effective against daemons just like the Hyperion. Where it differs from the Hyperion is that it deals around 350-400 more base attack damage. This is huge and is potentially the strongest or best daemon slaying weapon in the game. I like to equip mine on Gladiolus. You can find this right at the campsite below Keycatrich sealed door dungeon area.

Force Stealer : 

The player can acquire this weapon at Cape Caem. You must have progressed a while in the story to at least Altissia. Be sure to have Iris tend to the garden every now and than to make the soil prosperous for the Caem Carrots to grow. ( see side quest ) After giving 4 carrots for a weapon to the man near the soil you will receive the absorb shield. After giving him four more carrots for a total of 8 for the weapons you will get the Force Stealer. The Force Stealer can be upgraded by Cid the mechanic to become more powerful. It is a two-handed sword that can absorb elemental energy from it's foes and return them to the wielder.

Duel Code : 

You can acquire this weapon when you reach the first or second campsite location in the Daurell Caverns menace dungeon area. This weapon will deal around 400 damage at base on an estimate. It will also increase extra damage against lone foes. This makes it a suitable switch-up against most tougher lone enemies or bosses.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Polearms :

-------------------

Drainlance :

The Drainlance can be acquired during the main quest around or at the ill tidings part of the game. After you defeat the Imperial troops one of them will drop this weapon. It is a mechanical weapon. This means that Cid at Hammerhead can upgrade it and make it more powerful. It has an engine on it similar to the starting game weapon sword, the engine blade.
This weapon can be upgraded with some common metal scrap to make it Drain Lance II, a more powerful version of the weapon.

For the second upgrade, you will need to give Coeurl cat whiskers to Cid at Hammerhead. To find this item you must kill some Coeurl. If you completed the Mind the trap quest,you may remember me mentioning those enemies. If you head back to that area at Taelpar rest area you will find them. Head south from Taelpar rest area, on the map a procurement icon should be on the left. There should be a chest icon on the right, smack in the middle of that will have a Coeurl enemy spawn point. Defeat it then return to Cid to upgrade your Drain Lance weapon.

Plunderer's :

These can be acquired by growing and selling 12 caem carrots in Cape Caem. You must start the living off the land quest to begin collecting and growing caem carrots. To do so see our side quest section and it should be near the end or bottom of the list. For four carrots you will receive an absorb shield for four more you will receive the force stealer. Finally for a total of 12 carrots or just 4 more carrots you will receive the Plunderer daggers.


The Javelin is starting equipment and the lowest of all attack power Polearms. The Rapier lance is of better quality in power than the ice spear. Although, you may want to carry the ice spear around for ice damage against enemies weak to fire. Personally, I would stick with the pure damage. Both the Rapier lance and the Ice spear can be purchased at the power plant merchant location in Lastallum.

The Mythril lance can be acquired near Wiz Chocobo Post at the Cullness sword and gun shop. It deals around 150 + base attack damage and is the most powerful spear at the moment unless your Drain Lance is upgraded further. The radiant lance is a demon hunting weapon that can be purchased near the end of the main story line. Alternatively, you can purchase it at Melacaid HQ near the Vesperpool location on the map. It deals the most damage of the basic lances in the game aside from the Drain Lance if you would consider that a basic one. The Wyvern Lance can be purchsed in Altissia as well as some other vendors later on in the games main story line.

The Dragoon Lance can be found at the Grayshire Menace dungeon or Grotto. You must have completed all other regular dungeons to access this one. Be sure to clear out all enemies in the entire maze-like dungeon. Pick up all blue glowing loot along the way and you should come across this lance. it will give resistance to fire,ice,and lightning by close to 15% each on an estimate. The Precision Lance can be found at the very end of the Daurell caverns menace dungeon boss fight room. It will increase the chances of landing a critical hit and may be best suited especially for Ignis.

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Firearms :

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cerberus : 

It is the little things around a big idea in a triple A title that make a game great. SquareEnix is a great company, these are the things that great gaming companies do. Many of you might be expecting just a skin over or some cliche item that looks like a sniper and is really just the same as the base in-game firearms. Well, your wrong ! I was surprised greatly myself then it started buzzing around the web. Cerberus Sniper Rifle is just that a Sniper Rifle that can break enemy appendages with ease. It also has two zoom functions, a roll mechanic to avoid trouble and the basic ranged shot by just pressing circle. I love it, I didn't expect this and for the first time in a while, I was not let down.

Companies don't have to do stuff like this in a game, and especially when sometimes you are at the point of saying the skins on weapons my be boring. Than this weapon comes along and makes everything better. It sounds childish and maybe dumb but overall I am 100% happy this is an addition to the game with proper execution. It was just an overall classy move by SquareEnix. Fans of the series may think it doesn't fit however I am not one of them.

This item is a little hard to find, you must first clear out Fort Vaullery which is south of the Kellbass grasslands parking spot. You come here during the main quest, but I suggest going back later at a higher level so it is easier and less intimidating. The weapon is located inside one of the computer rooms. It is at the most north of the map and almost smack in the center of it as well. Give it a shot and then test it out yourself, I am very happy with this surprise !


The Cocytus is a handgun with a freezing property. It can deal extra damage to fire enemies or especially enemies weak to ice attacks like bombs. However, you get it very early in the game and it has low base damage. Purchase it off the gun and sword shop right in Hammerhead for a small amount of GIL.

Calamity is a nice skin over that deals poison damage. It can be a bit hard to find. During chapter 3 once you reach an area called Astor Slough which is a swamp area you may encounter the Fisherman. You can get the Fishing Buddies quest from him. Nearby is a camp to the North and a bit North of that camp will be a treasure chest icon that pops up on the map. Go to that location and on the floor glowing will be the Calamity handgun.

Rebellion is more powerful than the Mythril pistol. It can be acquired in Old Lastallum off of the Cullness gun and sword munitions merchant along with some other weapons. It has a unique skin compared to all other current firearms. It looks a bit like a magnum or a cowboy pistol with a nice chrome finish. The flame gun is also pretty powerful and deals fire damage. It has a base of 232 attack on an estimate. You can purchase it at many merchants in the game such as Altissia, Gralea, Cartanica and Tenebrae. Many of these are main story chapter only areas. However, you may always purchase one in Altissia if you missed it and would like to add it to your weapon collection.

Mythril pistol is located at the merchant in Lastallum. It is worth getting as it packs more power than all the previous pistols we have acquired in this guide. The Handguns are the initial equipment pistols they are the weakest however you may want to hang on to them for collection.

Hyper Magnum : 

This is a very powerful yet non enhanced firearm. It dishes out a ton of damage close to +400 on an estimate. It would probably best be equipped on Prompto because his primary weapon is firearms. You will find it after defeating the boss of the Menace dungeon in the Keycatrich ruins. Don't forget to pick it up before you leave the dungeon.

Executioner : 

This weapon is one of the most powerful firearms in the game. It also has an awesome perk that increases damage by a certain amount that is unknown to myself at the moment when an enemy is in vulnerable status. I will be testing it soon and trying to update all the loose ends in this guide as soon as possible. The weapon is found at the very end of the Grotto menace dungeon. You will fight a higher form of Yojimbo type enemy boss called Kengo. Defeat Kengo and you will find this lying on the ground.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Swords :

-----------------



The Rune Saber can be acquired once you reach Lastallum town. Find the merchant who is located around the corner from the power plant. You will pass him when you complete the Stroll for Two mini-quest. You may want to save your Gil for this item among others as the stat boost are decent but they are nothing spectacular. This doubles for looks and cool effects of the weaponry.

The broadsword can be acquired at the start of the game from Cullness munitions in Hammerhead. I would stick with the base engine blade for now and save the Gil. It has an identical skin to some other swords in the game sadly.

Flametongue is a fire elemental sword that does have a different skin than most other blades in the game. It also deals fire damage when you attack that is visible. It is the most powerful sword of the three thus far. I suggest getting this one in Lastallum over the rune sword. Ice brand deals a little more damage than fire tongue and can be acquired once you reach Old Lastallum. Talk to the Cullness sword and gun vendor and purchase it. The weapon deals cold damage so it is good vs fire type enemies or those weak to cold sources.

The blood sword is actually pretty good for a rather simple weapon. Each effective attack with the blood sword will heal the user. I am not sure the actual leech percentages. This sword can be equipped in combination with other Royal arms x3 to increase effectiveness. A good combination might be mace of the fierce with the blood sword. You would just have to avoid Imperial Troops due to ballistic damage. That is just a fun idea, switching up your items and loadout is what keeps the game fresh and fun. Try out different weapon combinations and more, you will be happy you did !

You can purchase the Airstep sword at the Wiz Chocobo Post. This is a strange one that allows you to perform an extra maneuver mid-air. Durandal is the daemon hunting short sword that can be purchased during chapter 14, you may also acquire it at the shop near Melacaid HQ near vesperpool. 
Daggers :

------------------

Daggers are the starting weapons for the class. The Avengers can be acquired at the Hammerhead shop near the start of the game. You will be using these all the way to Lastallum if you're following this guide. ( Subject to change ). Mythril Knives are the next choice and an upgrade. Buy these once you get to the Merchant at Lastallum. You also have the option of the Assassin Knives which deal poison damage over time to enemies on proc chance of the hit.

The Cutlass daggers are a pair of weapons best suited for Ignis. This is due to techniques that work only with daggers. These can be purchased in Old Lastallum off of the Cullness Sword and Gun merchant for a slight amount of Gil. Delta Daggers are the next level up in dagger weaponry for Ignis. You can acquire these once you reach Wiz Chocobo post. The main gauches are another common dagger, yet stronger than Delta Daggers. Get these at one of the Imperial merchants during the story line to have them early. Orichalcum is the best of all the basic dagger types in the game pound for pound, you can acquire these later in chapter 14 of the main story. Alternatively, you can go to Melacaid HQ near the Vesperpool to purchase them.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Vigilantes : 

A powerful set of daggers found in the depths of the Grotto menace dungeon. You will have to fight tons of enemies to get to this in the maze beneath. They are rather powerful so try not to miss them. The best advice I can give you  is to explore all the areas and know that enemies spawn only once. If there are no enemies in that room chances are you already have been there.

Ulric's Kukris : 

This is a very strange item and a hard one to find. First you must have defeated Ifrit during chapter 15. Afterwards, save your game and head up the elevator. Return back down from that same elevator and head outside. If you see two red giants chances are this has worked properly. Defeat the Red Giants and  make your way to the start of Insomnia. You will have to go through the underground subway to get to the right side of the map. Do this and defeat the enemies along the way. Continue to clear out the area of it's enemies and it may take some time. Be around level 75+ as well and look for a Necromancer enemy type called a Psychomancer. the Pyschomancer should be level 80 and will be wandering around the streets of Insomnia alone. If the Psychomancer does not spawn circle the area once or twice more and make sure you killed all the enemies and covered the whole right side of the map.

Remember to have gold needles stocked or some other form of petrification recovery. A safety bit will also be your friend here because of the tough instant death attack of the Psychomancer. If you are having too much trouble try using a summon. If that doesn't work you are probably too low level. It is not the toughest battle but just know if your level is too low it can be ! Once the Psychomancer is defeated he will "drop" Ulric's Kukris as blue loot on the ground. Pick them up and receive the item.

This weapon has some strange statistics. It also seems to regenerate health and magic points ? I could be wrong but I used it vs the Adamantoise and it worked excellently. You must tap circle to keep your hits and combination going rather than just holding circle. The weapon also hits so many times that it refills not only the tech-bar but the armiger bar with the most speed I have seen from any weapon. These are daggers and can be used on Ignis however for certain situations like the adamantoise hunt I would equip them on Noctis. A Really cool weapon with unique skin and look even in game as well as nice statistics and hidden affects.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Shields :

-------------------

The Shield items can be used as attack items as well as defensive items, especially with Gladiolus. They don't come up until you reach Lastallum where you can purchase the Power Shield and Ice Shield. If you're interested in using shield techniques or want to check them out, in general, save some Gil for the power shield over the ice one. The kite shield is sold in Old Lastallum off the Cullness munitions merchant. It has more power than the ice shield but can not defend well against ice damage. Right now it is second in terms of power and should be wielded as a secondary or primary by Gladiolus. Some of his techniques require a shield be used more information in the Techniques section.

Wizard Shield : 

This shield can be acquired while you are in the lower depths of the Keycatrich dungeon. You must get the key from Ezma and open the sealed door. Many levels below the dungeon and past the campsite will be some hecteyes enemies. Defeat them and than pick up the blue glowing loot. This is the wizard shield and will increase your magic by +99. It would be best suited on a character focused on spell casting.

Black Prince :

The black prince can be used to slay daemons as the game description states. It apparently is more powerful against daemons yet it has a lower attack rating than most shields you will acquire later in the game. You can purchase this one at the end of the game in Hammerhead. Alternatively, you can make a purchase of it at the Meldacio Hunter Head Quarters near the Vesperpool in Cleigne Region.

Ziedrich :

You will acquire this after you defeat the Tonberry Knights or Sir Tonberry's in the fallgrove. You must first accept the 3rd Quest from Randolph post-game. The Sir Tonberry enemies should be taken cautiously and try to counter and block their attacks often. This shield will increase damage after a blink while using Noctis.

Hero Shield : 

This is one of the basic shields that you can get before the late-game things. Be sure to check all the vendors to get 100% collection rate including this item if you are a completion player like I am.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Attire :

Attire will not only change your characters appearances,but it will also give stat and attribute boost. It is a very cool feature to this addition of Final Fantasy. Although I don't have much yet I will be keeping everyone updated on my progress. For now, this is the starting attire on the four main characters.

Princes Noctis :
---------------------------------------------------
. Prince's Fatigues . ( Jacket ) ..
. Prince's Fatigues .
. Casual Outfit .
. Casual Outfit . ( Jacket ) ..
. Kingly Raiment .
. Thermal Suit .
----------------------------------------------------
These are all starting attire for Prince Noctis. The Casual wear can increase critical hits. The base wear increases your maximum hit points ( HP ). I like the switch up and the casual attire comes with a hat and puffy vest, its pretty cool check them out. The Kingly Raiment comes with jacket and no jacket forms. They are both really awesome looking and I am glad we actually get to play with it on Noctis. One gripe is that you can only play it on past Noctis, some people are nit-picking about it I am one of them ! It's still not a huge deal, the attire is classy and royal looking as well as modern all in one. Nice touch by SquareEnix, I just wish there were more attires than the little we have.

The Thermal suit comes in quantity of four and can be gained once Holly becomes activated as a quest giver in Lastallum. It is located right next to Holly on the wooden box or bench, pick it up and you can now wear it any anytime in the game, unlike earlier where it was only quest orientated. You will receive four suits and can deck out the entire party with this attire.

Gladiolus :
--------------------------------------------------------
. Crownsguard Fatigues .
. Crownsguard Fatigues . ( Jacket ).
. Casual Outfit .
. Casual Outfit . ( Jacket ) ..
. Kingsglavie Garb ...
. Thermal Suit ....
--------------------------------------------------------
Attire for Gladiolus the big tough guy. The Crownsguard Fatigues seems to be made of a special kind of leather and denim hybrid material. Must be very expensive as it looks like the same material on Prince Noctis base attire as well. The Casual outfit has some combat boots and beige pants. You may also notice a cross or X chain hanging from Gladiolus neck which is a nice detail. Kingsglaive garb is virtually the same on all of your allies. You can keep it for good and travel to the past with it, once you complete the entire game. It increases spirit points for the wearer. This is another way of saying it increases your defense to magic attacks. 

Ignis :
--------------------------------------------------------
. Crownsguard Fatigues .
. Crownsguard Fatigues . ( Jacket ) ..
. Casual Outfit .
. Casual Outfit . ( Jacket ) ..
. Kingsglaive  Garb .
. Thermal Suit ....
---------------------------------------------------------
This attire looks very informative or intelligent and dapper. It seems to fit Ignis personality rather well. It is basically a clever expensive looking casual Crownsguard Suit. Also, the Casual set has the same idea except you can take off the Jacket. Ignis seems to sport his glasses with all attires for the time being. The Kingsglaive garb is really awesome looking and will increase Ignis spirit or magic defense. You can acquire it once you complete the game. You can wear it at all times at that point. However, you currently can not appear as older Ignis with it equipped in the past.

Prompto :
---------------------------------------------------------
. Crownsguard Fatigues .
. Crownsguard Fatigues . ( Jacket )..
. Casual Outfit .
. Casual Outfit . ( Jacket ) ..
. Kingsglaive Garb ...
. Thermal Suit ....
---------------------------------------------------------
Base attire for the punky cheery Prompto, character. The attire on the jacket is very modern day "emo" or "punkrock" style. Prompto, also always sports a wrapped black cloth on his right arm. You can take off the Crownsguard jacket and notice a techno or club type shirt. The Casual wear is much more casual and less punk by far compared to the very emo Crownsguard attire. The Kingsglaive Garb can be acquired at the start of the final chapter, fifteen. There is a nice little scene around it and I wonder how the attires stood in such good shape ? Once again this will increase spirit for Prompto and you can keep it after completing the game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Spells :

  
Fire Elemancy :

in this section, I will go over the game's elemancy system. I will be listing a large variety of spells,their combinations and possibly even load-out combinations with an element and a weapon setup. You should also gather elemental resources at camp sites. Spell attacks can make a huge difference in battle. Remember to hit the CRAFT action to actually create a spell to equip. 

Absorb Weapons :
Some weapon's like the engine blade and drain lance can absorb the elemental energy of your enemy. This means that you will gain fire,lightning, or ice power to your elemancy. It is not as fast as absorbing directly from sources and tri-sources at campsites, but it helps greatly as it is fun to know and use. You probably should have time to equip some of these on all allies or at least have one or two allies or yourself equipped with it to get the magic flasks filled to the brim.

Fire Spell :     x3
Fira Spell :     x3
Firaga Spell : x3 

Your basic fire spell. You can get this one with putting only one point of elemancy into a magic flask and crafting it. You will get 3 uses out of it. If you raise the potency by putting in more fire element you can deal more damage. I tend to aim for using all of one certain element at once. I like high potency it may not be the best way to conserve energy, though. If you wish to make it Fira the next level in fire spell, add an item or food item that increases potency. This is called a catalyst, once you go over 99 the spell becomes the next level. Fire > Fira > Firaga. Make sure you know the materials you're using aren't good for something else. That is the point of this section of the guide. However, since this is somewhat a difficult area of the game to master it could take me a bit to get a grip on it all, so stay tuned.   

Fire Expericast :  

Expericast spells will give you extra experience points when used on an enemy. I am not quite sure how they work exactly just yet. I do know the increase is significant especially if the level of the expericast is high. You can make expericast spells, from rare coins, debased coins and banknotes,old books and a few more strange items. It is a pretty good spell and may prove to be even more useful in the upcoming New Game + December 22nd 2016.

As a quick note I like to use expericast spells on Yojimbo enemies and Red Giants. I feel you get a nice amount of experience on a Yojimbo for a relatively easy kill even at level 70+. Red Giants spawn often at night and nighttime is always a good time to farm for experience with this one as well. One drawback to farming Red Giants with Fire expericast specifically is that they are pretty resistant to it if not all elemanal spells. Regardless just one use is all that is needed to get a huge boost in experience.

Fire Cursecast :

Cursecast will lower the attack power of a targeted enemy. Side note here as I do some research and from my own experience. We really could use a bit more to this magic system. I agree with many others when I ask where is Aero , Meteor, Ultima? Venomcast/Cursecast could have been completely different spells. We instead get fire with venom or blizzard with venom and it's just not the same. It actually gives me less to write about because there are too many catalyst with almost identical results. Really sorry to the fans here as I love the game and yes magic is fun, just very lacking. They probably will pick up on this in the next installment of Final Fantasy, whatever that may be. However, I don't think we will see a big change in any patches or future DLC. Although it would be nice. This goes hand in hand with the summon system.

Fire Stopcast :  

I was tinkering around with the stopcast every now and then through my play through. I didn't get a good idea or analysis of it until I started the menace dungeons. I had a good amount of Fira Stopcast in a magic flask and decided to use it on some Cryonades at the grotto maze. It didn't work too well as I noticed you can obviously stop yourself so be sure to keep a good distance before usage. To make matters worse it did not work good mainly because Crynoades travel in packs and can release ice-bombs in packs as well. The range is nice because you can follow up with a warp-strike on a stopped enemy. If you fail to hit all enemies with the Fire stopcast this will still lead Noctis and party open to attacks. Quick moral of the story is that I really suggest stopcast for lone enemies than follow up with a distant warp-strike and finally a combination of regular attacks.

Fire Venomcast :

These spells will consist of using items such as stingers and antidotes as well as many other items combined with elemancy of any type crafted in a magic flask to create a venomcast. Venomcast can deal large amounts of poison damage to an enemy. Now Although the spell system is not very complicated or complex that doesn't mean everything is explained correctly. I am under the impression that the damage of the actual poison will be on a 1-99 level based as stated in the description on the games menu screen. I would also think the Fire part of the venomcast is increased by name type ; Fire,Fira,Firaga and the spells potency number. This makes sense to me, but it makes the game more limited. Why not just be able to make a poison spell? That would have been more fun, seems not that difficult for the devs to implement given time. So in conclusion the devs just plain didn't have enough time to do this as we all may have enjoyed more.

A Level 99 poison or venomcast  will therefore deal max damage of poison overtime when at level 99. The initial damage from whatever elemancy you crafted the venomcast from will increase with name type and than finally it's potency. Venomcast Level 99 , Firaga : Potency 303 - Poisons all enemies in the vicinity of the cast dealing Firaga damage at 303 potency with 99 in poison level. I also guess that every enemy is automatically poisoned without a chance to be poisoned. This is mainly because it happens often unless they are immune to poison and the fact that there is no game indication on poison resistance. The game just leads us to believe an enemy is either immune or affected.

Fire Deathcast :

Fire Heal-Cast : 

About time there is something a bit more useful in this game even if it still lacks a bit of fun-factor. Your probably going to need these in the very late and post game menace dungeon of Costlemark. There is a section of the game where you can't use your tactical menu procurement items and you will have to rely on either an accessory from Ignis or healcast spells to cure Prince Noctis and the party. Until that point Heal-Cast could be fun but aren't you still going to take the splash damage from the fire overtime? Furthermore whenever you can fire and there is an item nearby you just keep having to watch the animation of Noctis trying to put out the flames on himself. It is pretty annoying in this somewhat broken battle system. Don't take that the wrong way it could be really fun at times there were just other things that I think could have been done too not only make it more practical but more fun. They honestly may have a solid structure to work with in the future.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ice Elemancy :
 

I have played about 100 hours now real game time. I have noticed that many Imperial Troops if not all of the foot troops are vulnerable to Blizzard or ice spells. This includes bosses such as Ravus or Aranaea. Once again I am still learning which is a very good spell system. Input appreciated just contact me at email. Ok, so I second that after playing 300+ hours. The spell system is watered down and way too simple too what seemed to be complex and deep. Where are all the cool spells from the Final Fantasy series? I was expecting to create those and even some of the ones that return just aren't as good as it's predecessors.

What happened to cure turns into a hard to figure out heal-cast. I say hard because I can't tell how much I am healing at a time. The numbers pop up way too fast. Below is a list of most of the other spells you can make. However, there are tons of classic final fantasy spells missing that could have been used in this game. Ultima, the real holy, poison, protect, barrier, shell. Not to mention that you must combine all of the returning spells with an element of either fire ice or lightning. Shadow, Holy, Gravity, Aero, Water spells, Wind Spells, Earth spells, The list goes on and on. This is a huge disappointment and results in less replay value as well as less strategic and creative ideas to use in the games already sub-par combat system.

Blizzard .  x3
Blizzara .  x3
Blizzaga . x3 

These are your basic ice spells, you can craft 3 casts in one magic flask using just 1 point of an element in the ice tree. However, if you add more points, for Example, 99/99. You will increase the potency over 100. If the potency hits 100 it becomes Blizzara. If the spell potency hits 200 it becomes Blizzaga. this can go even further later in the game with a certain perk from the spell ascension sphere. If you raise the potency your spell will do more damage. So for example, a 101 potency spell is less powerful than a 120 potency spell, even though it will still be called Blizzara. This recipe is created with no catalyst and you will get x3 casts per magic flask.

Sabertusk Claw Blizzard :

Sabertusk claws are easy to acquire if you are in the weaver wilds area in Leide. Sabertusk are really easy to kill and can drop one of these at a time, possibly more. For every sabertusk claw you have added as a catalyst to your blizzard spell, you gain some bonuses. The potency sadly, only goes up one point per sabertusk claw. The better part is that every three sabertusk claw you use as a catalyst, you gain an extra cast of that elemental spell. This is good to farm with and since they are near the Weaverwild campsite to begin with it is a good choice for starting crafts/spellcasters.

Blizzard Expericast : 

I like to use blizzard expericast for Magitek troopers. I could be wrong about the libra statistics on Imperial Troops, but I certainly see myself taking them down easily with blizzard spells. When there is a large group of troopers, specifically axemen troopers, I like to use Blizzard with an expericast. You should gain a nice amount of experience points as well as a swift battle. Remember, old books and debased banknotes or even coins will allow you craft an expericast spell, with any elemancy. ( More to come ).

Blizzard Stopcast :  

One of the problems with this spell is that it just doesn't last long enough from what I have seen even at level 99. You can also stop yourself and I believe the entire party when you use it. I like the touch that the party is effected by spells, but companies must still remember that this is a video game and it would have been much more practical to have the spell not effect Noctis and his party. Honestly if it were easier to get out of the way of being damaged by your own spell cast this wouldn't be a problem. Overall what the hell did they do to my classic Final Fantasy magic system! Regardless this spell will cast one of three types of blizzard and apparently stop all enemies in the vicinity of the spell for a very short period of time. For the reasons stated above I find it rather impractical.  

Blizzard Cursecast :

Blizzard Venomcast :

Blizzard Venomcast are pretty good, even though I do not use this combination much. I like just saving some blizzard for Imperial forces. This will work nice against anything weak to ice that is also susceptible to poison. Even when your party is at levels 80+ and you use a Blizzard venomcast on a group of Magitek Soldiers or Imperial troops they may not all die instantly. This is where the poison comes in and gets a bit more interesting. It should begin it's damage over time "tick" ( DoT ). By tick I mean like a clock every second or whatever the games poison damage timer is the enemy will lose more hit points or life. It is interesting to know just how much time it takes per tick of poison damage. If anyone can confirm or test this that would be great. I will be looking into how much poison damage is done at certain levels and over a certain time period myself as well.

Blizzard Deathcast : 

What is the point of deathcast when you can barley use it on enemies that are immune? You will probably say what about the enemies that are not immune well than I say to you that there is the Ring of the Lucii's death arcana for that. This makes me wonder why deathcast is even in the game. Well for one deathcast spells would wipe out a group of enemies if it connects much faster than ring of the lucii. I see the point in that sense. It might be nice to carry several of these around in that case when exploring lower level areas. Coeurl Whiskers make a good use of a catalyst when crafting death spells. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lightning Elemancy :

Thunder :        x3
Thundara :      x3
Thundaga :     x3 

Your basic lightning spells. I like to have 99 potency as often as I can. Later in the game, I don't really see a point of not stacking 99 unless you're doing some low-level stuff. You will get 3 uses out of these spells if you use 99 elemancy. I am pretty sure you get 3 spells per magic flask even with one point ( confirmation please ). This is nice to have in the field however, I do suggest just going with the Dualcast Thundaga below, you get more cast for about only 500 Gil.

Dualcast Thundaga : x6  : 

Tier #3 lightning spell. The catch is that you can store six Thundaga's in one magic flask here. Use 99 Lightning elemancy into one magic flask. Afterward, as a catalyst add the cheap and common sheep's milk. Do this until you reach six spells of Thundaga. The Potency should reach Thundaga tier easily with around 50 sheep's milk and Two Chain Level 99. This is called a Dualcast. Sheep's Milk can be purchased at many shops in the Leide area for only 10 gil. You can use around 40-50 sheep milk for 6x Magic Flask full of Thundaga. So you can have two bottles of x6 Thundaga. Also. this can be used with all elements, thunder,fire,ice together making a Tri-Dualcast x6 ! This would have a chance to cast all elements twice with 6 spells in the bottle or magic flask.

To simplify just do the following : Buy 99 sheep's milk, Use 99 single element in a magic flask, then use 50 sheep's milk in a magic flask and you will have Thundaga x6 Dual cast. There will be more of these, and once again you can enhance this recipe. I hope you all enjoy the spell system as I will be adding more to come. Magebooster + this combination can be uber powerful.

Thunder Expericast :

Expericast are always good to have around when you want to level up. No matter the element an expericast is very nice. You can use several items for expericast that Gladiolus usually picks up in the field. Rare coins are one of them and for 8 rare coins and 99 elemancy of any element you will get a Level 96 expericast Thundara, Blizzara, or Fira. I am not sure the exact amount of experience gained from expericast just yet but it is very notable.

Thunder Cursecast : 

Thunder Cursecast will not only do lightning damage to an enemy but it will also lower their attack power for a short time. The keyword here is short, it is a very short time even at high levels. It probably last about as long as your spell cool-down last. This could be effective if you keep casting on a high powered enemy. Just an example because I am not sure if it works but the Adamantoise. Lower damage means you would be using less procurement items. This could save you time in a speed-run. More importantly it would be useful in a low-level run especially if you doubled it with the Equalizer meal effect. Equalizer will bring your level and an enemies level together for the entire duration of the meal.

Thunder Venomcast : 

I like the extra that you can add venom with this spell as you can also use an option of the Bio-Blaster or have Ignis passively poison enemies with Venom Fang. I guess you can even choose the level of power of the venom from 1-99. The problem is I can't seem to figure out how much damage this stuff actually does. There is no way to slow down these numbers! I still don't see the point too much when you can even swap out gear mid-battle. So you can just use the Bio-Blaster to poison or once again venom fang. Once again just my opinion and overall it's just not fun.

Thunder Deathcast : 

I experimented with this one a bit more. You can once again form some deathcast with many catalyst in the game. One that comes to mind are the Coeurl Whiskers that you can farm off of Coeurl enemies through-out several areas in the game. Now i do like the idea of thunder deathcast because it at least seems to apply faster than the damage over time of fire and the blizzard start up times. I could be wrong though and this doesn't work on many enemies in the game. Overall you would just be getting the lightning damage. Speed-Runners are going to analyze this spell much more and it is probably very applicable and viable for a speed-run of Final Fantasy XV.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Techniques :

Techniques are special moves or abilities that your party members can perform during battle. They can be used when your tech bar fills up. The Techbar has 3 levels at the start of the game. Some techniques eat up to 3 bars of the tech meter. You can upgrade your abilities to recharge the tech bar faster in different ways. These moves are essential to winning battles in Final Fantasy XV. Character portrait artwork in this section is thanks to stella974 from deviant art check her out for the originals and thank her for this amazing work on the best game in years !

Gladiolus :
-----------------------------------------------------
. Tempest .
. Cyclone .
. Dawnhammer .
. Royal Guard .
. Impulse .
-----------------------------------------------------

Tempest :

The Tempest attack can hit multiple enemies at once. It is used only when you have a Two-Handed sword equipped on Gladiolus. You can follow up with a warp attack by pressing circle at the right time with Prince Noctis. This move can knock enemies down and cost 1 bar of the tech meter. It also levels the more you use it in battle.

Cyclone :

Cyclone is nice, but it can be tough to get used to. The trick is to just hold down triangle button on PS4 when Gladiolus sticks his sword into the ground. I was trying to lock-on to it. However, that only resulted in me taking a bigger beating. This attack will help multiple enemies in its vicinity. Gladiolus will first strike the ground with a SHIELD, so you must have one equipped on him for it to be accessible. Afterward, he will plummet his sword into the ground and Noctis can warp to it. Noctis will spin around the sword multiple times damaging any enemy in the AoE ( Area of Effect ).

Dawnhammer :

Dawnhammer was something I was expecting much more from. Once again the techniques are useful, just not the best looking graphically. Dawnhammer misses very often too.If it does hit it packs a punch especially when you land a critical. If you press circle at the right time after a connected dawn hammer, Noctis will come in with a warp attack.

Royal Guard :

While Gladioulus is wielding a shield he can protect noctis and than have the Prince of Pain follow up with a shield warp strike attack. I didn't find this one too useful or as powerful as other skills like impulse. It misses often as well it seems to me at least. You are probably better off just sticking with Impulse for a high power attack although it eats three bars of the tech-meter. If you don't like that option Tempest is your next best choice.

Impulse :

Impulse is a great technique and it is my personal favorite technique for Gladiolus. It will consume three bars of the technique meter but it will also have huge area of effect damage to all targets on the current battlefield. It looks like it deals electrical damage which could possibly mean more damage to enemies near water or during rainy conditions. I am not sure if it matters but I do know that Lightning spells are effected by rainy conditions or water covering an area on the battle field. It usually results in extra damage if casted near water or in the rain. It may take a while for everyone to acquire this one if you do not trick or glitch to get ascension points. I am sure speed-runners and pro gamers will find a way with this one to rip through early parts of the game as it is very powerful.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ignis :
----------------------------------------------------
. Mark .
. Analyze .
. Libra Elementia .
. Overwhelm .
. Venom Fang .
. Enhancement .
. Sagefire .
----------------------------------------------------

Mark :

Mark is a dagger based skill that can only be used when daggers are equipped on Noctis as well as Ignis. It follows up with a quick succession of strikes that can increase critical hit rate with each continuous strike from your daggers. You can mark multiple appendages as well and I believe you must actually by using the attack button with Noctis while the "mark" technique is taking effect to do extra damage with the Prince of Pain - Noctis. This is the first technique you will acquire as Ignis.

Analyze :

Analyze is a skill that you can acquire under the Ascension tab in the main menu. If you go under the Teamwork tab from there you can find this for  a small amount of AP. It is nice to have this one to know what enemies HP ( Hit points ) are at. It will also tell you what they are weak against for weaponry and elemancy. I would say get this one early. This ability works better in wait mode. To change to wait mode go to options and than choose combat. You can switch to wait mode or active at anytime throughout the course of the game.

Libra Elementia :

Libra Elementia is one of the better skills in the game and probably one of the most useful. It only depletes one bar of tech as well. It is easier to find out the enemies weakness because you don't have to lock-on to the particular analyzed enemy. Ignis will show the element the target or targets are weak too. Sabertooth's for example travel in packs, so one Libra Elementia will show you they are all weak to fire. You will acquire this skill later down the road in the main quest around chapter 10.

Overwhelm : 

Overwhelm will have Ignis declare a battle tactic that sends the whole party focused in on a single target. I would say this is great for boss battles or big enemies like Red Giants. Remember you can always change your techniques even during the course of a battle through the menu screen. One thing I am not sure of is when a technique pops up on screen in a yellow-bar over the traditional green bar? If anyone knows what that indicates please contact me. This technique cost 2 bars of meter and has several levels in which it increases in either power or length. Once again this should be used on boss or mid-boss type enemies. Elder Coeurls in the grotto maze will fall down quick to this overwhelm technique. It may also prove even more viable to say those two bars of tech meter until your target is in Vulnerable status than Overwhelm for massive damage.

Venom Fang : 

I really enjoyed this move and the similar moves that are somewhat automatic but still powerful. Venom Fang is a non-manual move that Ignis will do under certain specifications. You can purchase it early in the ascension tree. If you don't use bio-blaster much on Prompto this is a great way to always get that Poison damage in on the enemy. I am not sure when this move triggers and I do not know the level of the poison it inflicts so more to come here as well !

Enhancement : 

This is one of the most useful techniques in the game and will be used to take down huge bosses such as the Adamantoise. It will engulf a weapon that Noctis is currently using with the element that the enemy is most weak against. You can even stack these once or twice maybe more ? I am not sure about the stacking or just how long it last but give it a try and see what happens. I will try and get more analysis on this one to give everyone a better idea of the technique.

Sagefire : 

This is an awesome skill for Ignis that will engulf both of his daggers with an awesome looking orange fire. He will than charge at the target and deal tons of damage with strikes from the flaming daggers. I got to admit that the last few techniques were implemented pretty good. It is quite a shame some of the rest are so disappointing. It would have been really nice to have a long list of unusual and creative techniques for each character. Something with a bit more flair and charm would have been nice. I feel most of them are pretty unoriginal and lack creativity.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prompto :
----------------------------------------------------
. Piercer .
. Starshell .
. Recoil .
. Gravisphere .
. First Shot .
. Deathblow .
----------------------------------------------------

Piercer .

Piercer is a cool move. I like the camera angle and view when you trigger the technique. It packs a punch and only uses one bar of the tech meter. This is an ideal skill for targeting appendages of enemies. Targeting appendages can knock down an enemy making them vulnerable. This means they take more damage and can do virtually no attack. Not all enemies have appendages so this skill will do damage, however not put them in vulnerable status.

Starshell .

Starshell is probably my favorite technique at the moment. They should have made more techniques like this. I honestly feel most of them lack flair and are quite unimaginative. I could be wrong. This one is a bit more interesting and looks better than most. Starshell will illuminate dark areas and deal damage over time ? It is best suited for dungeons for that particular reason and when it is used Starshell looks quite amazing. This technique leaves most monsters in the "Threatened" state. 

Recoil .

I am feeling that Prompto really has the best-looking techniques in the game. Recoil is another good one but can only be used while he is equipped with a Machinery weapon. He will unleash a fiery explosion upon a large group of foes for two meters of the tech-bar. The technique is pretty powerful and I would guess it counts as machine if not a special damage type not applied to libra analysis.

First Shot . 

I am pretty sure this attack does not work all the time. It implies that Prompto will strike first with a deadly bullet from a firearm. I just don't see it taking effect every time. It should also deal extra damage and can sometimes break an appendage or knock a target dead with a one shot kill.

Deathblow . 

This attack can instantly kill weaker targets. I am just assuming this is equal to casting a death spell with a certain level. However I am not sure of the actual statistics behind it. I hope this makes enough sense for now as I will be trying to research a bit more on the passive ability for Prompto.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cor :

The definition of Badass, the Marshall of Insomnia, Cor the Immortal. This character is a bit clouded in mystery in my opinion. I am not too far through the story but he seems to be very much on the side of the King and Prince Noctis. He is practically worshiped as a badass by Prompto and the other characters seem to have great respect for him as well. He is a good character to watch right from the start of his introduction to the game. His technique Lion's Roar will have him using his Two awesome katana blades at the foe. One long katana like Sephiroth and one short one. Hopefully, we get to see more of this stuff later.

Iris :

The young pretty little lady Iris will join your party for a little while during the Set to Sail main quest. She has some interesting dialogue lines and you may want to have a Chocobo handy on a rental while she is in your party. What I found really interesting about Iris is that she attacks with a giant Moogle stuffed animal only when you Link Strike attack. It is a nice little Final Fantasy easter egg that packs quite the punch. Her eclipse technique is cool as well she does a nice backflip kick move that reminds me a bit of Tifa Lockheart from FFVII.

Aranaea :

Aranaea will join your party for a bit once Gladiolus "leaves" :( I don't want to spoil it for you but she is quite an interesting character and I hope to see more of her. Her technique skill is Highwind which is really awesome. she will take up in the air with her Astor Dragon Spear and come crashing down on enemies for 3 tech bars. Aranaea also has some amazing looking attire and the most interesting of accessory items. Unfortunately, we can't see the description for the accessory items as well as the Dragon guard attire. Hopefully, something like this comes later in the game for either our own characters or maybe more for Aranaea herself.

Aranaea is confirmed to appear at night when you are usually in a big fight with daemons in-game. If you hear and see an Imperial ship in the sky, there is a chance that Aranaea will be inside and fight along side you and your party. This is a well-welcomed edition to the game. She will only join your party after Chapter Seven's dungeon.
Skills :
Noctis Fishing :

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lures :
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Carbuncle Lure :
The first lure shown to the left is the Carbuncle lure. Thanks to loremaster on deviant art for the artwork. Carbuncle is a classic and fan favorite of the Final Fantasy Series. This lure can be purchased in Altissia the water city around chapter 9. It is considered a gemstone lure and stars shine on its icon when selected. You can also see it when you fish a bit. Instead of sinking it floats up as stated in the description. More information on what fish types you can catch with this to come.

With this lure, I caught an amazingly huge Cygillan Seabass that was 41 inches + From the docks in Altissia at nighttime. I was using spider silk, Galatea reel, and Butterfly edge rod. Note my line was full at 1500/1500. Shortly after with this same lure that costs 3000 Gil each mind you. I saw an even bigger Red colored fish, unfortunately, my line broke due to not changing it and the fish got away, but that one was even bigger ! The moral is that perhaps this lure catches bigger fish ?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Knife T. Tonberry Lure :  
Not sure why I love these lures so much. Maybe because the game added in the artwork on each. It would have been nice to see unique accessory items with artwork too. The more artwork the better. This one is the classic Tonberry lure. It is a unique lure and you can get it on the fishing buddies quest. You must catch a barramundi fish. To do see equip a blue ice bomber lure. You can purchase it at the tackle shop right in the area of this quest. It will help attract the barramundi that swims in these waters. Beware, as it is a pretty tough fish to catch. Make sure your line is full, you can use spider silk line. Make sure you have a few lines and Ice Bomber lures. Any rod and reel will do as well. After you get the fish talk to the man next to the pond for the lure as a reward.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Invincible Iron Giant Lure : 

Another nice looking unique lure, based off of the Iron Giant of the Final Fantasy series. You can get a free one for completing one of Navyth's quests. Alternatively, you can purchase one at the shop outside the Leville hotel in Altissia. This is a pretty in-expensive unique lure and is suited for several types of harder to catch or rare fishes.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bahamut Lure : 

This is probably one of the hardest items to acquire in the game. You must complete the Liege of the Lake tour quest to obtain it from Gladiolus as a reward. It is really difficult as you have to catch a huge rare vesper gar with a most unusual name. If you camp at the local site near the Vesperpool area it will start the quest/tour. You only have one chance to catch the fish or you must replay the entire tour over again. It is really hard to get to bite and reeling it in could be even more difficult. Practice makes perfect and more information in our side quests section. ( See Tour Quest ). The lure is awesome and you can never lose it, even when your line snaps. It resembles a classic version of Final Fantasy's Bahamut iconic character.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Typhon Lure : 

I almost completely forgot about this summon from Final Fantasy VII most specifically. I never acquired him in FFVI so I can't blame myself on that one. I do blame myself for not remembering how awesome this guy is though. He was also in FFX-2 which I didn't play either ! I missed quite a few Final Fantasy games that I should definitely catch up on. Typhon returns as a Lure in FFXV and can be acquired by winning Medals in the Totomostro monster game at Altissia. You need around 45,000 or 60,000 Medals to get this unique Lure. I would say it is worth it for any completionist. Also, I really would have liked to see more of Typhon in this game. What about enemy skills, stealing and controllable summons ? :(
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Poppeck Chocobo Lure :

These lure items can be found at Galdin Quay Fishing hole. They can also be found throughout the field and purchased at other shops. Overall these are very common type lures. The yellow poppeck will increase chances of catching Giant Trevally fish. The Red will increase the chances of catching a garnet snakehead and the white will increase the chances of catching a pure snakehead. Nice touch by Square-Enix on the lure items, especially enjoying the unique lures listed above.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bomber Lure : 

Bomber lure is rather common around Eos and it will be your friend early and even later in your fishing career. The basic bomber is sold at Coernix station among other shops in the game including the Regalia. It is suitable for catching alstor bass at either noon or night. The blue bomber is called the ice bomber and this one is also sold at the above mentioned locations. It is used to catch the popular Crag Barramundi fish. This Lure is best used on cloudy days when rain is likely. The thunder bomb is good for catching Phoneix bass and dark barramundi. It is the least used of the three bomb lures, however still popular enough to hit the Eos fish market. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whiskers Lure :

 The first one is a white lure called pearly Moogle. The whisker lure family heritage is based around the beloved Moogles of the Final Fantasy series. Pearly Moogle is good for catching rainbow trout and allural seabass. It can be located any various fishing holes, found in treasure chests throughout the world and purchased in the Regalia's in-car shop. The next one is chocolate whiskers which is good at catching Callatein Brook Trout and Copper Allural Seabass. It is sold and found easily in the game. The blue Moogle is for the crystal whiskers lure. This lure is fine at catching Coral Allural Seabass and Cherrycomb Trout. All of these are very cheap to purchase with Gil and sold at many fishing shops in-game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deadly Waters Lure :  

The First lure is the Coraldevil, which is a pretty common lure that can be purchased at several bait shops in the game. You can also purchase all three of these from the Regalia digital online shop. It is specifically nice for catching Dark Allural Seabass when it is cloudy in the morning. The next one is the Seadevil which can also be purchased or found throughout the world of Eos pretty commonly. It is best suited for catching Maiden Brook Trout during the evening when it is rather cloudy. Finally on rainy nights the Sahagin lure is best suited for fishing the popular Zipper Barramundi fish. Once again you can acquire all these lures rather easily through-out the game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stormer Lure : 

Stormer Chert Focalor Lure can be purchased at the JM shop in Altissia which is right outside the Leville Hotel. This lure is suitable for catching Cygillian Seabass and Striped Barramundi. You can use this lure effectively for these fish during the day or the night. The Stormer Focalor lure can catch the striped barramundi or Cygillian seabass as well. It is more effective however, not only at day or night but during cloudy conditions included. Lucinian Seabass and Striped barramundi can be caught with the Purple Berry Focalor lure. This lure is best used during the evening and while the weather conditions are rainy. Once again all of these lures can be purchased at JM shop in Altissia.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sweet Jamming Lure :

Sweet Jamming lures are basically different variations of the flan enemies in the Final Fantasy franchise. The blue one is your basic flan lure the green one is the moose lure and finally the yellow one is a custard lure. All of these can be purchased at tackle shops throughout the game. Most importantly you can purchase all of these at the Regalia online shop a bit later on in the games main story line.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fatal Roulette Lure :

These lures can be acquired very early on in your fishing career. They can also be found near fishing holes as common blue loot at times. You can purchase them from various tackle shops throughout the world of Lucis. The Regalia online shop will sell them as well. The first one is the basic Ahriman creature from the Final Fantasy series. It than comes in 2 other off colors called bloody eye and floating eye. The floating eye is yellow and red while the bloody eye is the white lure with hints of red in it.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stinker Lure :

Burrower Lure :

Hot Breather Lure :

Lure based off of the famous dragons of the earlier Final Fantasy games. They come in Hot breather form with red blue and green colors. They can be found as common loot at times in towns or near fishing holes and in some cases respawn. You may purchase these later on in the game at the Regalia online shop if you wish to add them to your collection. Finally many tackle shops in the game will sell these lures.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jumbo Tusk Lure :
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Needle 1,000 Lure :

The needle 1,000 is the smaller or cactuar version of the gigantuar lure. These are cute lures based off of the cactuar enemies or creatures in the Final Fantasy series. They come in basic green, metal or silver and the gold. There is also a larger version which seems to have a mustache listed below called Gigantuar 10,000 lure.

Gigantuar 10,000 Lure :

The Gigantuar 10,000 Lure is found sometimes as blue glowing common loot around fishing holes. You can also purchase all three colors or lure types for Gigantuar 10,000 from the Regalia online shop later on in the game. Also, note that you can purchase all three versions of the Needle 1,000 Lure listed above as well from the Regalia. This version stays above the water and seems to have a propeller added to the top or head of the Gigantuar. It also seems to sport a small round mustache.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Rods and Reels :

------------------------------------------------------------
. Air Stagger . ( Pre-Order Bonus Only ).
. Mind Breaker . 
. Butterfly Edge .
. Death Spin .
. Hell Blaster .
. Tranquility .

. Menkar .
. Galatea .
. Nereid .
. Abacus .
. Llymlaen .
. Fomalhaut . ( Pre-Order Bonus Only ) .
-----------------------------------------------------------

You will have the Mindbreaker Fishing Rod at the start of the game. Fishing rods will determine the defense of your line. You will lose less of your line depending on how much defense your rod has. A Better rod has better defense making it easier to land big fish. The Butterfly rod can be purchased at Tabby's tackle shack or won as a reward from Navyth's quest Fishing Naturally. ( see side quests section ). It offers 150 defense compared to the 60 of the Mind Breaker. It has a unique butterfly paint coating on the entire rod. Next up is Death Spin which can be acquired near the Liege of the Lake tour quest at Bert's Bobbers and stuff. Pick this one up for a hefty amount of Gil if you wish to add it to your collection. This rod has 210 Defense.Hell blaster can be obtained from Dory of the Deep right near Sacallum Pass parking area.

Menkar is the starting reel of the game and goes hand and hand with Mind breaker. It has 130 attack and attack determines how much of the fish health bar you can take down at a time. The Higher your attack the easier it will be and faster to land a fish. Galatea has a 240 attack and can be purchased from Tabby's tackle Shack. Note, all of these rods and reels have UNIQUE looks. Nereid has 270 attack power and should be used immediately once you trigger the Liege of the Lake quest. You can purchase it right near the quest at Bert's Bobbers and stuff. Lastly the Llymlaen possibly pronounced ( Lim lay in ) is the most powerful of all the reels at 330 attack power. You can win this for around 60000 Medals at the Totomostro mini-game in Altissia. I will be covering that soon in the ( EXTRAS SECTION ) of this strategy guide. Abacus reel can be acquired from Dory of the Deep's fishing and tackle shop which is near Sacallum Pass parking area.
Fishing Lines :
-----------------------------------------------------------

. Spider Silk .
. Super Baleen .
. Dragons Beard .
------------------------------------------------------------ 

Spider Silk :

The first fishing line you're going to probably use is the Spider Silk. I recommend always having it with you, especially early on. Fishing can get really hard later on in the game and your going to break lines and lose lures often. Spider Silk is a cheap and affordable way to practice learning how to reel in the super rare fish. It offers 1000/1000 Durability, it is sold at almost every fishing shop in the game and you can purchase in the Regalia later on.

Super Baleen :

Super Baleen is the longer and more durable line next to spider silk. Super Baleen offers 1500/1500 Durability per package. It is slightly more expensive and can still be purchased at almost every single fishing spot in the game. You can purchase it from the Regalia later on as well. I like to use the Super Baleen to clear out some of the fishing hole before I reel in the big catch of the day. It is also nice to switch off to some spider silk in combination with this one to level up your fishing skill. Alternatively, you may want to collect all fishes or something else and Super Baleen is cheaper than Dragons Beard.

Dragon's Beard :

Dragon's Beard line is the most expensive, yet the most durable line in the game. It fetches for a high price even with a high fishing level. Watch your Gil wallet, but know that it is very important for landing a big fish. I am not the best fishermen in real life nor the video game so I choose to use this one anytime I am going for a big catch or quest.  

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gladiolus Survival :


------------------------------------
. Potion Finder .
. Remedy Retriever .
. Hi-Potion Finder .
. Ether Eye .
. Elixir Extractor .
. Hi Elixir Hunter .
. Phoneix Finder .
. Mega Potion Miner .
. Megalixir Magnet .
. Platinum Puller .
------------------------------------

Gladiolus is a big guy and thus so perhaps that makes him more fit for Survival in the wilderness than the others. Gladiolus Skill is exploration. What this means is whenever you are on foot there is a change Gladiolus will pick up a useful procurement item for the party. It will go directly into your inventory. The First level is Potion finder, Gladiolus will find more potions while on foot in the wilds of Eos. At Level Two Gladiolus will learn to retrieve remedy items. These are called Remedy potions. Remedy potions can cure various status ailments. ( see items section ). Next up at Level Three, Gladio will find Hi-Potions. These can restore all your health at times. I say at times because if your MAX HP ( Maximum Hit Points ) are low then your only going to heal for the amount you have left. They are still a useful potion even for me now at level 50.

Ether eye will allow Gladiolus to obtain random Ether items in the field once his exploration skill reaches level 4. Ether is used to fully restore your MP ( magic points ) on Noctis only. An Elixir fully restores Hit Points and Magic Points, but it only restores half of your maximum HP. Also it is stated that it regenerates the latter. Hi-Elixir hunter is the level 6 perk for Gladiolus.This one will fully restore your HP and MP on Noctis only, this includes maximum Hit points and magic points.

Phoenix Finder will help the party gain more Phoenix and Mega Phoenix items with Gladiolus Survival Skill. Mega Potion miner will help acquire more Mega Potions for the party which gives the entire party a full return of their hit points. Megalixir will fully restore the party to full health including their maximum ( HP) . Finally Platinum Puller will reveal Platinum Ingot's that sell for 10,000 Gil each ! 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ignis Cooking :

Ignis will cook for the crew every time you sleep at a campsite. In other cases you should eat at a dinner or restaurant for a meal bonus, meal bonuses are a huge game factor. It is also a very deep and enjoyable part of the Final Fantasy XV experience. Ignis will learn new recipes the more you cook. Also if you find LEAF icon's on the map sometimes those rare ingredients will have Ignis pop up with a new recipe. He will state so every time he discovers a new recipe in-game.

Flame-Roasted Toast :
This is a starter meal that Ignis can cook at any time for no material cost. It is a simple grilled piece of toast that still looks tasty without even having a hint of butter on it. Grilled by Ignis to perfection it can increase your attack by 10 which is a level one increase in game standards for the entire day.

Toasty Riceballs :
I love rice balls personally so this is bar none for me ! Ignis will whip up this meal at anytime you camp for no cost in resources. It will increase your max HP by 50 which is considered a level one increase in-game. This effect will last for the entire day.

Croque Madame :
This dish looks like eggs benedict or egg on toast, pretty tasty ! Am I the only one that gets amazingly hungry after eating or looking at the dishes in this game? This is an easy recipe to make and discover. It will cost one birdbeast egg and one gighee ham. You may make it at camp. Discover this recipe at the start of the game or when you first level up Ignis cooking ability to one. It will increase your attack by 30, this does not multiply.

Veggie Medley Stew : 
Not the best-looking meal on earth, but hey it's grub ! To make this one you will need a Leiden Potato, these can be found at procurement spots in the Leide region of Lucis. Sheep's Milk is the next required ingredient. It can be purchased at Hammer Heads market shop. Finally, Funguar which is located in caves, you can find some easy in Galdin Quay near where we hunted the big crab enemies. As an alternative, you can purchase some from your Regalia online car shop. However, it may not appear until later in the game. This stew will increase your attack by +20 and maximum HP by +150.

Mystery Meat Sushi :
You will learn how to make this recipe after buying some Luncheon Meat from the market shop in Hammer Head. It looks good and personally, I ordered some sushi from my local restaurant after eating it in-game. In real life, I threw it in the garbage and wasted twenty dollars. This was mainly due to me having high cholesterol and it tasting like glucose or molasses. Makes me wish Ignis would be my chef in RL. ( Real Life ). Increases attack by +50 and maximum hit points by +100.

Memory-Lane Pastry : 
This is a really good one in my opinion. It gives a rare perk called Magemaster. What this does is increase your magic attacks that consume MP ( magic points ) dramatically. I reached up to 910+ Magic statistic with this perk and it goes on all 4 characters. The problem is it reduces your attack and strength to 0. Ideal if you are making a pure mage for a while to have fun with. To get this you must complete the berried memories quest ( see side quest section ). After completing berried memories you can purchase the desert for around 12,000 Gil from Coctura in Galdin Quay. After eating it once Ignis will learn this recipe with the same effect, granting the party Magemaster accessibility.

Mother and Child Ricebowl : 

This is a great recipe to learn ! You will gain a 50% boost to finding items off of enemies. This includes appendage items such as the Helixhorn. You will also gain a nice 30% boost to experience points, this is a synergy to me as you can gain some extra EXP while farming your items. Finally, you get one thousand more HP ( Hit Points ). To make it is fairly easy, you will need the common birdbeast egg, found in Leide region and sold in shops. Saxham rice is the next ingredient which can be purchased from many merchants and even from the Regalia after a certain point in the game or quest. Finally, the chickatrice leg is a bit rare. There are enemies called Chikatrice, which are baby yellow fat chicken enemies. You may stumble across them in some of Cindy's Regalia quest near Vesperpool ( Northwest of map ). Alternatively, you can purchase these from some shops in-game but they are around 300 Gil each. This recipe is commonly used by players, especially to farm the Helixhorn drop from the Duplicorns in the Last of the Spiracorns hunt.

Burly Bean Bowl :

This dish is a favorite of Prompto and can be acquired by eating the Chili Con Carne dish at Takka's restaurant in Hammerhead. Alternatively, you can acquire the recipe by finding or buying all the ingredients. You will need one Chocobo bean, Lucian Tomato and sweet pepper. All of these can be purchased in the Regalia shop later on if you wish to make more Burly bean bowls. Beforehand, Chocobo beans are sold at Wiz Chocobo post shop. Lucian Tomato are sold at Prairie Outpost and Galdin Quay a bit later in the game. Finally, sweet pepper is a common find in Leide Region shops. You can also find it in the Wilderness of the Leide Region. For a few cheap ingredients you will gain an experience boost for Prompto, since it is his favorite dish. You will also gain +300 to Hit Points and +40 boost to your attack.

Prairie Style Skewers : 

This dish is one of Gladiolus favorites it can be acquired by either eating it at a local stand in Lastallum, or finding the ingredients. The ingredients are rather common and consist of Anak meat and Leiden pepper. Anak meat is sold at various shops in the game. You may also farm Anak for their meat at areas in the Leide Region. Leiden pepper grows near trees near the Hammerhead area. Alternatively, you can buy this from many shops and the Regalia's online car shop. This will boost Gladiolus experience gain due to it being a favorite dish of his. It is probably a better idea to eat this dish earlier on in your play-through. It will increase your attack by 40 and maximum Hit points by 200. 

Multi-Meat Sandwich : 

One of my personally favorites, the multi-meat sandwich will boost both experience point gain and maximum hit points. You will need to farm some daggerquill breast in the Leide region. Daggerquill's can usually be found in-between canyons in the weaver wilds. You can also purchase it at various shops in Leide Region. Aegir root is the next ingredient which is slightly rare in the field. It grows near Galdin Quay often, be sure to check out the Vannath Coast for this one. Finally some Gighee ham which is sold all over Leide. The Multi-Meat Sandwich will increase HP by +100 and EXP ( experience points ) boost of +20% for an entire day.

Oil Drizzled Steam Fish :

A decent dish that can be easily obtained if you fish often. You will need some Trevally Filet and some Wild Onions to make this meal. Wild onions are common and grown through-out the Duscae region. You can find them at food spots on the map, or at many merchants. The Trevally is a common catch if you like to fish often. You will gain a level 6 boost to attack from this meal. This will increase your attack by +60. A level 4 HP boost which will increase maximum hit points by +200. Finally a level 5 magic boost to raise your overall magic damage by +50.

Grease Monkey's Schnitzel Sandwich : 

You can learn this recipe by obtaining some Garula Sirloin. This can be acquired by defeating large Garula enemies. You will be introduced to them in an early hunt in the game. You will also need some Cleigne wheat, which is common once you reach the Cleigne region. This is a favorite dish of Gladiolus and increase attack by +50 and HP by +200. Also note Gladiolus will gain an experience boost for the duration of the meal.

Breaded Cutlet with Tomato : 

A Favorite dish of the chef himself, Ignis. This recipe will be learned once the player reaches cooking level 6 with Ignis. You will need the ever famous Lucian Tomato to make this dish. Lucian Tomato's can be found at Galdin Quay market and later from the Regalia's online shop. Anak meat is the final ingredient and you can acquire it by simply hunting Anak enemies in the Leide Region. Both ingredients can be purchased rather easily late game. You will gain a +60 to attack and +200 to Hit points.

Spicy Long bone Rib Steak : 

This one is a favorite of Prompto and all you need is to hunt some dualhorns for the steak. Leiden pepper is also very common at food locations on the map as well as shops all over the Leide Region. You will gain an increase to attack by +50 and a +200 bonus to hit points.

Dish and Chips : 

You should learn this recipe by eating some of Kenny's Fries at the Crows Nest dinner. It is a favorite of Noctis and only requires one simple ingredient which is Leiden Pepper. Leiden Pepper is found commonly at food spots all over the Leide Region. This meal will increase your overall hit points at level 6 by +300 and will give Noctis an EXP ( experience point ) boost.

Dried Aged Tender roast Stew : 

A Stew made of some easy to acquire ingredients. Garula Sirloin which can be acquired by defeating large Garula enemies. Leiden Potato which is a bit more rare to find in the field, however it is easily purchasable. Finally the Lucian Tomato once again found at Regalia shop later in the game, and Galdin Quay shop earlier in the game. Note the merchant will not sell the Lucian Tomato or even be at the shop until a bit later in-game. This meal will increase attack by +50 and HP by +200.

Grilled Wild Trevally : 

This one will use another Trevally Filet to cook as well as some Leiden Pepper. Trevally fish are common in the Leide Region as Leide pepper grows all over the region. This meal will increase your attack by +70 and maximum HP by +100 for the entire day's duration.

Creamy Fowl Saute : 

This one looks pretty good ! You can farm some Daggerquill breast off of Daggerquill enemies near the Leide Canyons, where you fought Yojimbo during the hunt except in the Daytime. Funguar can be purchased and farmed at food spots near Galdin Quay. Some Funguar food spots are located in caves or near darker areas. Finally sheep milk can not be farmed, but it is the cheapest and most common ingredient in Leide Region for 10 Gil. This meal gives the Poison Proof Perk ( poison immunity ). It will also increase your attack by +50 and Hit Points by +400.

Fried Frontier Skewer : 

With some Bulette shanks and Cleigne Wheat you can create this dish. It will give a level 10 bonus to your maximum hit points. This gives +500 ( HP ) to all your party members. It will also increase your critical hit chance by + 30% and is one of Gladiolus favorite dishes. Remember favorite dishes will increase the experience point gain of that party member for the meals duration. You can increase meal duration via the ascension tree. You can acquire Cleigne wheat commonly in the Cleigne Region. Bulette shanks come from the beatle like enemies that wander Duscae border and Clegine Region. 

Peppery Daggerquill Rice :

This recipe is pretty decent and will increase your HP recovery rate by 25% It will also increase your attack by 80 and your maximum Hit Points by +250. You will need some daggerquill breast commonly found in the canyons of the Leide Region. Saxham rice which is sold at various vendors in the Leide region. Finally the very common Leiden pepper which grows along large trees in Leide will complete the dish.

Quillhorn Soup :

This soup is a hot and steamy broth made from sauteed Wild Onions, Daggerquill Breast and the juices of a dualhorn steak. Wild onions are slightly rare but will grow through-out Eos on the ground. You must defeat daggerquill's and dualhorns for the breast and the steaks. You will gain 75% increase HP recovery rate as well as +100 to your attack with this hot meal.

Creamy Crustacean Omelette : 

This is a harder recipe to acquire, mainly because the ingredients are scattered around across the land of Lucis slightly. You should have some Birdbeast Egg which is very common, as it grows in Leide Region and is sold at Hammerhead. Eos green peas are also found commonly through-out the Vannath Coast as well as sold at merchants at many areas in the game especially Lastallum. The Shieldshears Claw is more rare as it can only be purchased at high-end ingredient based shops. However, you may also purchase one at Cape Caem merchant right near the parking spot. This meal will increase both magic and attack by +100 as well as a +400 bonus to your maximum Hit Points ( HP ) for the meals duration.

Egg Fried Crustacean Bowl : 

This recipe also consist of the Shieldshears claw found at Cape Caem as well as the ingredient merchant at Lastallum. You can also purchase some in Altissia at Old Gobuant's Boat. The merchant at the boat sells very expensive ingredients so make sure you have a nice amount of Gil. You will need Shieldshear claw, birdbeast egg and saxham rice which is also common for this recipe. It will increase magic and attack by +100 as well as a +600 bonus to your maximum hit points.

Battered Barramundi :

Catching Barramundi type fish with Noctis will result in getting some Barramundi filet. Ignis should learn this recipe when you catch a barramundi as well. Combining this filet with some leiden potatoes will increase your attack by 100 and maximum hit points by +500. At some merchants you can purchase certain types of items you would normally acquire from fishing yet not all of them.

Stacked Ham-Sandwich : 

This is a great meal that can be discovered once you get to Wiz Chocobo Post. When you get to the quest called "Feathery Feast" you should complete it and the Fat Chocobo Triple Decker will be on the food menu. Select it and pay the Gil price than eat it with your friends. Ignis will learn this recipe which increase experience gain by +50% ! It will also increase your maximum hit points by +400. Finally, the ingredients are both rather cheap and common. Gighee ham is purchased at many shops including the Regalia and hammerhead for a low price. Garula Sirloin can be purchased or farmed off of the many Garula type beast enemies in the game. Finally the Aegir Root is sold commonly and also farmed a bit more rarely in the Duscae Region on the ground. 

Papa Bird and Baby Bowl : 

You can find this one in Lestallum near where you can purchase some mother and child rice. There will be a woman eating that you can inspect. Walk up to her and hit the action button to learn this mighty recipe with Ignis. It is pretty easy to make and has great benefits. You will need a Basilisk breast, saxham rice, and a birdbeast egg. The Basilisk breast is probably the rarest of the ingredients. It can be found or farmed off Basilisk near the Vesperpool woods. Alternatively, you can purchase it at a shop or two in the world of Lucis. This meal gives a huge and perfect 100% increase to drop rate for rare treasures. This means a guaranteed drop on just about anything in the game by one. You will also gain 1,000 Hit point increase to maximum HP. Finally you can gain 40% experience bonus for an easy to acquire recipe.

Crown City Dive Style Dumplings : 

You can find this on a signpost at the West Leiden tunnel. You will need some simple ingredients which include a Bulette shank, cleigne wheat, and some leiden pepper. This recipe will increase your attack by +100. You will also gain +100 to magic and +300 to maximum hit points.

Tripple Truffle Risoto : 

Get this one when you find or purchase an Alstroom. They are a pretty common ingredient all over Lucis even from vendors. For some funguar, alstroom and saxham rice you will gain resistance to poison, +400 to maximum HP and a 75% increase to hit point recovery rate.

Toadsteak Drumsticks : 

This is a favorite dish of Prompto and will increase his experience gain rate when consumed as a meal. You will discover this recipe with Ignis after defeating a Gigantoad. You will need some Gigantoad steak and leiden pepper to create the dish. It will grant the party +500 Hit points +120 to attack and +100 to magic attack.

Skewered Wild Trout : 

Once you catch a rainbow trout you will learn this recipe with Ignis. You will need a some trout filet and some leiden pepper It will prevent toad status as well as raise maximum HP by +800. Finally, the party will also gain a +150 bonus to attack rating and damage.

Kenny's Original Recipe : 

You will acquire this recipe once you eat Kenny's salmon at a crows nest diner for 1500 Gil. You will need some Nebula Salmon Filet as well as some garlic. When consumed as a meal the party will gain +200 maximum defense rating, and +150 to attack damage.

Blazing Braised Gizzard :

For some sahagin liver, kettier ginger, and sweet pepper you can make this dish. Once you purchase or find some Kettier Ginger the recipe will become available. It offers magic at +300 and a 50% increase to HP recovery rate when consumed at a campsite.

Cup Noodles : 

You can learn this recipe once you purchase a cup of noodles at Lestallum town near the Cup noodles vendor. He is pretty hard to miss especially if you love cup o noodles like Gladiolus and me. This is Gladiolus favorite dish and will increase the amount of experience that he gains for a limited time. It will also increase your attack by +30 and maximum HP by +300.

Green Soup Curry : 

For some allural shallot, sweet pepper and a chicktrice leg you can make this recipe. You will need to find the allural shallot first to trigger the dish for Ignis. This dish offers one of if not the biggest attack boost in the game at +1600! It also will give the party +800 to maximum hit points as well as +70% fire resistance.

Golden Egg Galette : 

For some Gighee ham, Fine Cleigne wheat and a birdbeast egg you can create this recipe. To actually learn the recipe head to Cape Caem hideaway house area. There will be a sign going towards the house on the left side. Be sure to read it and Ignis will learn this recipe. The recipe will increase attack by +120 and Hit Points by +400.

Three Mushroom Kabab : 

When you acquire a Malmashroom you will learnt his recipe with Ignis. You will also need it to create the recipe along with a vesproom and an alstroom. The recipe will increase maximum HP by +800 and attack by +150. Finally you will be immune to most status ailments after consumption at a local campsite.

Hearty Cutlet on Rice : 

This recipe must be read off of a sign that you can find under a bridge in the southern area of the Vesperpool. If your having trouble finding this one contact me and I will make a video or give a more detailed location. Please see our extras section for the video guide which has over 300 tutorials and montages on Final Fantasy XV. This meal will increase maximum HP by +1500 and attack by +250. You will need some Saxham rice, Clegine wheat and griffon breast.

Karlabos Cream Croquettes : 

To acquire this recipe you must purchase the Iron Shelf recipes volume 4 book from Cape Caem outpost in the Cleigne region of FFXV. The player will need Karlabos claw which can come off of some of the crab type enemies in the game. You will also need some aegir root which is pretty commonly talked about it this guide. Finaly, Cleigne wheat will complete the recipe. The player will gain +200 to attack and +1000 hit points as well as 50% HP recovery or regeneration.

Fisherman's Favorite Risotto :

This recipe will be the reward for completing the kitty catering side-quest. See the sidequests section of this guide and head to the kitty quest section. You will need some saxham rice which is a commonly sold ingredient. Caem Pinkshrimp which is sold by only a few of the more prestigious food vendors in the game. One can be purchased at the Cape Caem outpost. Also the Cleigne Mollusk which is also sold at prestigious vendors and may be purchasable at the shop outside Cape Caem. The player and his/her party will gain +120 to attack rating. They will also gain a +600 bonus to maximum hit points as well as 25% HP regeneration.

Crown City Roast : 

You can acquire this recipe after defeating the Jabberwock that is enemy level 58 the first time you head to Costlemark Tower dungeon. You will need some Jabberwock Sirloin as well as the common ingredient Leiden Pepper. Jabberwock Sirloin can be purchased at Meldacio Hunter HQ outpost for a hefty but worth it price in Gil. Alternatively, you can keep killing the Jabberwock during it's hunt quest for more sirloin. I do not recommend doing this in any way shape or form. You must complete the entire Costlemark puzzle again to get to the Jabberwock. It's not worth it and you can probably farm the Gil for the sirloin much faster. This will increase your maximum hit points by a huge 3000+ for the entire party. The party will also gain +400 to strength attacks when consumed at a campsite.

Chilled Food Tin :

You can learn this recipe after completing or resting during chapter 10. It gives a +30 boost to your attack and +100 to hitpoints. It is really just a story based recipe and not worth using in the field. However, it is necessary to complete your collection and cost no ingredients to create the dish.

Fluffy Chiffon Cake :

Recipe becomes available after Ignis reaching cooking level six. You will need some of the rare leiden sweet potato and some cleigne wheat. For the sweet potato please see my playlist as you can farm some of these at 1-2 areas in the game in the field. Alternatively, more prestigious food vendors will sell the sweet potato. You will gain HP +1000 as well as +200 to vitality and finally +200 to spirit.

Robust bean soup :

This skill is unlocked at Ignis cooking skill level seven. The ingredients that you will need are some Eos green peas, leiden pepper, and a killer tomato. These ingredients can all be purchased in either Lestallum or the Altissia prestigious food vendors. Maximum HP will be increased by +600 as well as a huge and amazing 100% technique rating meter boost. This is one of the only recipes in the game with this perk. It is very useful if you love to use techniques. Finally, you will gain a 50% bonus to health regeneration.

Creamy Milk Risotto :

When you reach cooking level eight with Ignis you will acquire this recipe. Malmashroom, saxham rice, and sheeps milk will be required to create this dish. The latter two ingredients are common yet the Malmashroom is sold by less vendors in the game. HP gain will be +600 as well as 75% health regeneration and finally you and the entire party will gain toad prevention.

Lasagna Al Forno :

You will learn this recipe when you gain level nine with Ignis cooking skill. This is one of my favorite meals in the game to create and eat at a campsite. It has some of the most useful post-game status boosters. However, you will need the somewhat difficult to acquire Jabberwock sirloin. You will also need Cleigne Darkshell and Fine Cleigne Wheat. You can pick up the Cleigne Darkshell at the Cape Caem outpost and you may also be able to get Fine Clegine Wheat there. If I am wrong I apologize and refer to the prestigious food vendors in Lestallum and Altissia. Also note the Jabberwock Sirloin is sold at the Meldacio Hunter HQ. At that location you may find some of the other ingredients needed for this recipe.

Importantly once you have the ingredients it is nice to know the sirloin is the rare ingredient. You should acquire the rest easier and than rest at a campsite to use the meal. You will gain 100% experience gain bonus and complete immunity to fire, ice, and lightning attacks. Maximum Hit points will also be increased by a huge +4000 for the entire party. This is a huge candidate for many of the menace dungeons late game if not a required candidate depending upon your run of choice.

Gold Tail Soup : 

This recipe will be learned and acquired once we reach level 10 with Ignis cooking skill. This is the final level of cooking and one of the best recipes in the game. This is a huge boost to your critical hit rate at a perfect 100% increase. This is huge because it can be greatly helpful in a speed run or just speeding up the process of killing bosses like the Adamantoise. You will also gain 150% to health regeneration. You will need some Kujata marrow and platinum myritrout filet as well as allural shallot. These are all pretty rare ingredients. The Marrow can be purchased at prestigious shops as well as at Cape Caem. The Myritrout filet can be fished by getting platinum myritrout and finally the shallot which is somewhat common.

 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Skills : (Continued)
Prompto Photography :

Prompto will take pictures along the journey, it is a nice added feature and it is Prompto's skill of choice. When you level it sometimes you will gain access to different filters for the camera. These consist of ; Roadtrip,Memory,Dawn,Bloom, and time. One more may be added when I reach photography level 10 possibly. You may choose when or how often Prompto will take pictures with these filters. I am not too sure how you can change the color of the pictures. I think that is the purpose of the filters but i haven't messed with it too much. If anyone knows it is appreciated contact me at my email.

Prompto can also take pictures with different filters. You can change your filter settings in the archives menu by selecting photos. It is actually quite interesting and later on these pictures develop over time in detail with the games main story. Some pictures come out black and white and you can even set the memory. At times in the Regalia, Prompto will ask Noctis who he would like to see more in pictures between the group. It is a nice little addition to an already huge game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Camera Filters : 

Camera filter can be accessed as you level up Prompto's photography level. The filters are a neat element to photography. They will change the look of a picture and there are several of them. You can also select how often a camera filter will be used if you click archives in the main menu. You will start out with the road trip filter. This takes basic looking pictures with no real color or appearance difference.The journey camera filter can be acquired once you level up your photography skill a little. It seems to give a  warmer feel to the photos. You will earn dawn during the main story which gives a morning view edge to your photos. Memory gives a more older type look with a warmer hue to your photographs, one of my favorite filters. 

The pop filter can be acquired if you sleep at the three Z's Motel in either Old lastallum or the taelpar crag area. During the motel sequence Prompto will come over to Noctis and seem upset. If you answer correctly you will be rewarded with this photograph filter. Be sure to "urge him" as that may be the most important option. Do not worry if you say the wrong thing, just sleep at the motel again until you answer successfully and acquire the pop filter. This filter adds a very bright and colorful look to your photographs.

Time and bloom filters I believe come with main story line progression as well as leveling up the photography skill to level 10. The Vintage filter gives off a vintage vibe to the photos that Prompto shoots. You can acquire this by sleeping at the Campsite at the Alstor Slough area. Complete the "tour" quest and strike a pose ! After the quest "Up Close and Personal " is complete you will be rewarded with this filter.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------
. Road trip .
. Journey .
. Dawn .
. Memory .
. Pop .
. Time .
. Bloom .
. Vintage .
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Summons : 



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ramuh :

You can locate this summon as part of the main questline in the Hexatheon blessing story mission. You will have to travel to three points on the map after being stranded by Ardyn. I suggest killing Dead Eye first in the hunt at the Wiz Chocobo Post. Once Dead Eye is defeated use the Chocobo to travel to the points. Eventually, head into the dungeon, defeat the Naga snake enemy inside and acquire the Key Item that allows you to Summon Ramuh in times of great peril.

What this means is that the Summoning of at least Ramuh comes only when you are very near death. It also may come automatically at certain points in the game for story purposes. However, you will have to hold down L2 on PS4 to summon the Archaeon. The summon itself graphically is simply amazing. I actually and honestly was on the edge of my seat watching the summon for the first time. I really suggest you wait to see them all for yourself. It is not worth it to spoil the grandeur and scale of these summons with a video. The summon does huge amounts of damage but it can not instantly kill all enemies.

The problem I was having with the new summon system is that I worried it may make the game too easy. Does Ramuh come to your aid every single time you are about to die ? Is there an in-game limit on how many times you can summon per day ? These questions are still surrounding many players minds at the moment including my own. I will keep you updated as I progress through the game. Just noting the summons are still an immensely fun part of the game. In Final Fantasy VII, arguably one of the best Final Fantasy games ever, the summon system was similar to this. You summoned and it did tons of damage with no true control over the summon. The bonus was the Materia system which made the player able to level up his summon a bit which was a good idea. Final Fantasy X comes to mind next with the best summon system in my opinion. Not only could you do an ultimate move with your summon, but you can control it in ATB or WAIT battles. They also more than one skill to use and you could level them up. Whether there is a game to the madness behind the summons in FFXV remains to be unseen, however, I assure you they are still a viable and immersive part of the game.

Ramuh will come forth in this game, from the skies. He is  huge in-game and has a look similar to those shown in Final Fantasy 6 and 7. Much more in detail in Final Fantasy 15 and furthermore realistic his current First Summon attack is Judgement Bolt. He will at times grab Noctis in his hand and raise the staff empowering it with lightning. Finally, he will hail down a furious god bolt from the heavens at your foe. It should deal heavy lightning damage to the enemies. In comparison to other Final Fantasy games, I personally loved Ramuh in Final Fantasy VII the best. I like him in this game as well but for some reason, that one stands out the most. More to come on Ramuh in a few days stay tuned.

Ramuh seems to have a second version of Judgement Bolt. The first version may be considered the inside version. This 2.0 version was when I summoned Ramuh outside. Ramuh will grab Prince Noctis in his huge hand and hold him. Lightning will be striking in a fine blue all over the night sky. The staff will burst with an explosion near the horse head and than Ramuh will cast it upwards. He will seem to charge it for a moment or two, then the Staff will in a charge of lightning turn white and do a mighty plunge down onto the enemy. The first version just as analysis shows Ramuh outside. Storm clouds are all around the Divine Fulgarian and he is floating in the sky. The Staff is instead conjured as lightning absorbs into his right hand into the staff. When it appears it is launched like a spear from an angle by Ramuh. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Titan Archaeon :

This is technically the first summon you will acquire. Although I am not sure if you can use him until you Acquire Ramuh the Fulgarian. You must go through the Trial of the Titan in chapter 4 of the main questline. To complete the Trial try and avoid the fire as often as you can especially at lower levels. It will just be you and Gladiolus to start. Next, you should probably get or have some blizzard elemental in your inventory. It is going to help when you have to take the Titan head on. Follow the on-screen prompts when you get to battle the Titan. If you're having trouble you can always go back and level up. The Titan will punch with his arm and try and crush with his foot. The arm is hard to dodge so use your potions on that one. The foot can always be countered and blocked. When the battle is over you will have completed the chapter and the Empire will fly you off, yet leave the entire party stranded near Wiz Chocobo Post.

The actually summon may only occur outside. I could be wrong about that and it seems to only occur in the Leide area of the first continent of Lucis. Once again just like Ramuh you must be in a peril state to be able to summon the Titan. As for the actually summon, it is obviously devastating to the enemy. However, I do like this one much more then Ramuh for several reasons. One I feel they did a great job on titan this time around, I almost completely forgot he was in Final Fantasy 7 as a summon due to the huge make over in appearance. I also like the lore around him in the game, the battle and of course the epic music during his trial. Ramuh is awesome as well and even thought I am overall a fan of this summon, I am hoping for a bit more. I think it would be nice to have an item that maybe allows or summon to do a different ultimate move. For example, Titan uses Gaia's wrath and I love the idea how the animation changes for Ramuh. I would like to see that same idea, except we must farm a challenging monster to get the next summon move. Basically the more the better with stuff like this. SquareEnix has seven DLC apparently planned for this game so let's keep them crossed.

Gaia's Wrath is the name of the ultimate that Titan uses on your enemies. The Arachaeon Titan will pick up a huge piece of the earth and form it into a gigantic boulder. With both arms heaving it towards the enemy forces. In its devastating wake, it will leave an explosion of fire with only burning brimstone to tailgate.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Leviathan :

You will gain this summon in Altissia after the battle with the divine herself. It is a really strange fight that has you in the air with a constant form of the armiger. To win this battle I just simply kept mashing the circle button. I know it sounds brainless but I did it and mixed a few warps in-between to get close to Leviathan. It isn't the best-designed battle, however, it looks incredible and reminds me of Poseidon fight in God Of War III. Once you complete the fight you will gain the mark of the Hydraean which will allow Leviathan to help in times of great peril. I personally have only seen Leviathan in the cut scenes and the summon later in the game that comes on the train which is really nice. I haven't gotten her to summon in-game other than the two mentioned. When I do I will update with my thoughts and analysis.

Leviathan actually was summoned randomly a few more times for me. People are saying around the web that these summons depend on location and when your in peril and other similar ideas. However, after 110 hours of game-play time, it seems slightly more random than any of the latter. Leviathan seems to only have one more summon cut-scene. I would guess this is because of her huge role in the story and the battle. Also Leviathan has another entrance in the game when you are on the train heading towards the glacian. When actually summoned in the battlefield I am slightly disappointed. The water covers the entire area and it looks more like a wall of blue than anything else. Leviathan herself looks pretty good and you can't complain about the classic Final Fantasy 7 Tsunami name choice. I just prefer the other summons over this one at the time being.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shiva :

This is probably my favorite summon at the moment. I feel they did a better job overall on the lore of this one and the graphics. There are also two versions of this summon in the battlefield. During the course of the main story you will see Shiva summoned at other times as well. All Shiva scenes are very nice to look at and increase the lore factor that this game is missing a bit. 

Gentianna will appear swiftly in the first version of the summon, she walks by really quickly and mysteriously. Keeping quiet as she usually does the goddess forms into Shiva. Multiple Shiva entities appear and start to circle around Prince Noctis. Shortly after the diamond dust forms and crushes the opponents. The second version has a longer scene with Gentiana and seems to show a different angle and might be a bit longer. I have to watch it again to be sure.

In the game and I will try not to spoil much, there are two amazing Shiva summon scenes. They are both very awesome as Shiva gives the cold kiss of death to both of these major enemies. It was very well done and although the summons are definitely lacking in this version of the game they are still cool. I don't understand why they couldn't just add the summons to the Tactical Menu ? For example maybe you could only summon ONE diety per day. That would make things pretty balanced and more tactical, rather than just getting beat-up well enough to summon them. Hopefully, in the future, they will as we have a ton of DLC ready to come and one coming before the holidays.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahamut :

 

Bahamut is one of the six and the strongest of them all. Bahamut has personally chosen Prince Noctis to be the one to save the world, or the chosen one. This and the future of Prince Noctis is all revealed through the revelation in the crystal during the games main story. Bahamut can not be summoned like the four other summons we have received blessings from earlier. Bahamut at least during this time before DLC, comes during the end of the game and uses the Ultima Sword ability. It is really an awesome summon, I wish we were able to see more of it, perhaps in the future ? With that being said, don't try to keep yourself in a peril status trying to summon Bahamut it will not happen. You receive the Mark of the Draconian as a Key Item when you meet Bahamut as well as your revelation of the future.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ifrit :

 

Ifrit can not be summoned at all in this game. However, he is still one of the six and a huge role in the story. I don't want to spoil what happens but it is a great scene and epic battle. The start of the story links together with the very end and it is awesome. Ifrit is considered to be a malevolent God. One of the six that despises humans and finds them pathetic. He is purely evil in this game. As for his look, its incredible ! I really love what they did what Ifrit's character design in Final Fantasy XV. Not much more to say, other than that fans will be happy and enjoy an amazing part of the game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Items :
Accessory :

Assist Suit :

You will acquire this after doing battle with Aranaea during Chapter 6. Once you defeat her it will go directly to your inventory. This item is huge with the stat bonuses. It gives an amazing 500 + HP ( Hit points ) as well as some strength and more vitality. I have been wearing it two chapters straight ever since the Hit Point boost is too good for now.
Thieve's Way :

For some strange reason, the word Thieve is written in italic in the game description or lore. This is an interesting item that you can find in the Ramuh Dungeon area. I suggest exploring the entire dungeon. It's worth getting all the rewards and EXP ( experience ). This item will reduce the cost of all phase abilities by Prince Noctis. It can prove to be very useful especially for those that love phase dodging with the square button.

Thieve's Way II : 

This item will increase the effect of the magic decrease from phasing. You can stack these to make the effect even more potent. This one can be found in the Secret dungeon which is the Pitioss Dungeon.

Chobham Armor : 
Awesome armor, that is located near the end of the game in the hell that is Chapter 13. Sadly I didn't record the exact location on this.  Just looked up a youtube video by POXO on youtube. Poxo seems to have found a second location on this armor, which is found at Furloch farms. Furloch farms is located south of the Coernix station. If you check your map you should see a large structure near Saxham Outpost. Head to that area and search the farm, it is located on top of the awning. Note it is in the second part of the structure on the map, the smaller one. This armor gives a huge 30% resist to ballistic and bullet damage.

I also found one myself once again in Chapter 13. If you search all the room you will come up with it. That takes a real long time, so best I can remember is it is located on one of the higher levels floors towards the end. Start checking from floor 4 and up for it, sorry but until I can confirm the exact location with another site or someone else this is all we have right now.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bulletproof Suit :
This item offers 20% resistance against bullets. This is great vs Imperial snipers and many Imperial troops.I found mine somewhere in the area near the Imperial bases. Also, they can be found as loot in treasure spots on the main map and at other locations.

Bulletproof Vest :
This accessory is a common drop that offers 10% resistance against bullets. It can be found off of certain hunts and as loot in some of the many treasure chests in the game. It is also even sold off vendors. You may want to get the double or triple accessory option from the ASCENSION menu. In that case, you can combine this with more bullet Resistance vs Imperial troops. 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fireproof Inners : 
This accessory will increase you're Fire resistance by +20% This is commonly sold in the land of Altissia and found as random loot in treasure chests across the world of Eos. It is also looted in the secret Pitioss dungeon. Sold at Verinas mart and Lastallum marketplace as well.

Warm Inners :  
This accessory will increase you're resistance to ice elemental based attack by +20%. It can be found as loot in the Pitioss dungeon. Note, it is also commonly sold at many merchants through-out the game including Lastallum and Verinas mart which is near the Rock of Ravatogh.

Insulated Inners : 
This rubber induced accessory will reduce the damage inflicted by all lightning attacks by +20%. It is sold in Lastallum as well as Verinas near the Rock of Ravatogh. You can find one solo as loot in Pitioss secret dungeon near Ravatogh. Random loot may occur a finding as well from Treasure chest icons on the main map.

Anti-Darkness Inners : 
You can acquire these after completing the Fistful of Gil hunt. To complete the hunt head to the marker and defeat the Yojimbo enemy. To get the hunt to appear make sure to beat and complete Balouve mines dungeon first. This will be your reward upon completing the quest. The actual hunt tipster is located at the Longwythe rest area. 

Blackhood : 
You can acquire this in the Pitioss dungeon at the very end when all puzzles have been solved. It will automatically dodge attacks. The catch is that it will even dodge minimal or weak against from foes that do practically no damage. It will still consume MP ( magic points ) with each dodge. You may want to carry a large amount of ether procurement items with you if your going to use this. It seems very powerful and it does work with a Magi-tek booster however those are harder and rare to find.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tempered Shield : 

I have two of these, I can't confirm for sure, but i think I recall getting one as glowing pink loot from a treasure icon location. It also can be found in Gralea once you get to the end of the main story line at the elevator entrance to the right. It is located in the Insomnia palace area. It offers a huge boost to Hit Points ( HP ). +800 and also to your Vitality +40 which helps increase your overall defense. This item also has a 5% chance to drop off of MA-Veles Bis Magitek robots. They sell for around 2500 gil which is nice but I would hold onto them for your party members.

Magitek Shield : 

This shield is empowered with Magitek energy and is even more powerful than the Tempered Shield. It can increase overall hit points by +1000 ! It also will increase your vitality by +60. This can be located in Insomnia, perhaps the palace ? I will get the exact location soon. Around the web, this one drops from MA-Veles Bis Magitek Robots with a 5% drop rate. The MA-X Cuirass has a 100% chance to drop this item. You should go for that latter because it also is a side-quest for the Regalia Type-F. ( see side-quests ).

Magitek Suits : 

Both of these suits can be farmed off of the MA-X Angelus magitek robot that spawns somewhat randomly in the world of Lucis. I personally have fought the robot and encountered it several times near where you do the sword in the waterfall quest. If you remember the quest there is also a giant snake enemy as well in the area called the Midgardsormr. The angelus should spawn in that location if not it also has a small chance of spawning in Ledie region. The enemy can be tough especially to farm quickly as the Magitek suit V2 has a 5% drop chance. The V1 magitek suit has a 95% chance to drop. The version 2.0 will grant the user with 2000+ Hit points. It will also grant the wearer with +100 to strength and plus 70 to vitality or defense. Please see our video section under extras for some video tactics or the bestiary for tactics on defeating the MA-X Angelus.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Genji Gloves : 

A classic item in the Final Fantasy series that has been slightly weakened in this game. In Final Fantasy X these were probably the best accessory items you could get your hands on arguably. They have also been a staple to many games in the series. In their return to Final Fantasy XV they are still powerful and are found late game at the Pitioss Ruins dungeon area. You can find them when you reach the Goddess statue. After knocking the statue down move to her belly button and pick up this accessory. They will increase by +30% resistances to lightning,dark, and ballistic damage.

Moogle Charm :

Moogle charms will increase experience point gain for the wearer. The results can be stacked so the more you put on the faster you will level up. There are several of these in the game and they can be found at the following locations. #1 Lambeth Haven campsite. You must sleep at the campsite then complete the Flower for Iris quest and you will be rewarded with the moogle charm.Another moogle charm can be found in Altissia if you like playing the Justice Monsters Five mini-game. The only catch is you must use the machine on the right which cost 10,000 Gil per play. You can also find 2x Moogle Charms in the Daurell Caverns the first one is in the main cavern area. The second moogle charm is located deep within the menace dungeon area. Finally there will be one in the Costlemark Tower dungeon and another in the Crestholm channels main dungeon. These are easily found by exploring the entire area so you should run into them just be completing the dungeons. If you want me to list more I will but these are the current six moogle charms I have located.

Field Medicine :
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Garnet Bracelet : { no image ]
First of the bracelet accessory items you will probably acquire and also one of the weakest if not the weakest overall. It will increase your strength by a small percentage. These can be found easily in treasure chest icons on the map, as reward from hunts and even as common blue glowing loot all over the world of EoS.

Emerald Bracelet : 
A Common bracelet that will increase the wearers strength thus increasing their overall attack rating.

Heliodor Bracelet :
A Common bracelet that you can find in various hunts and sold by certain shop vendors. It is not too expensive and offers a nice amount of strength to you or other party members.

Sapphire Bracelet : 
Common piece of jewelry crafted by a popular artisan. This blue bracelet will increase the strength of the user that adorns it. It can be found commonly on hunts as rewards and through-out the land of Eos as treasure.

Ruby Bracelet : 
Another common bracelet that can be found in-game off of various hunts and treasure icons on the map. It can also be found all over the world of Eos. This item will increase the wearer's strength thus increasing overall attack power.

Diamond Bracelet : 
Powerful and rare bracelet that will increase the wearers strength by +70

Dark Matter Bracelet : 
A very powerful and rare bracelet that can be found in the Menace dungeon of Costlemark Tower. It will increase the strength of the wearer by +100.

Amethyst Bracelet : 
Another common bracelet in Final Fantasy XV this one is less powerful than most yet still will increase the users strength by several points.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Chokers : 

Chokers come in five types which are colored. Red, black, blue, white, and green. The white can be found in hammerhead and pitioss ruins and also drops off a tonberry enemy with about 5% chance. It will regenerate 2% of your hit points per second. The green choker can also be found in pitioss ruins. Green Chokers can also be acquired in the To sting in anger hunt. It will increase HP recovery rate by +3% and also has around a 5% chance to drop off of master tonberry enemies. The blue choker can be found in the marsh madness hunt. It can drop off of a basic dungeon tonberry with around 5% chance to drop.

It can also be found in pitioss dungeon as well as Fociaugh. This item has a 4% HP recovery rate increase. The red choker can be found as a collectible in Pitioss dungeon ruins. It also has a 10% chance to drop off of a Master Tonberry. Finally, you can acquire one off of the hunt an omen crawls on the ground. This accessory will increase hit point regeneration by 5%. The last choker is the black choker. You can acquire this if you visit Costlemark Tower and find it in the maze below near the Jabberwock. It is also the hunting reward for reaching rank six. Finally, you can get it from the "Devils Cry Curses" hunt.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Anklets : 

Anklets are accessory items that grant the wearer certain perks or powers. They are usually worn wrapped above the foot or on the ankle of a user. The Soldier's anklet can be found in the Pitioss dungeon ruins or in the Galdin Quay area. Many hunts and places will have this item available even common loot on the ground. The Warrior's anklet will increase vitality by +35 points. It can be found at the Wiz Chocobo Post area or the Coernix station area. The Garchimacera enemy has a 3% chance to drop this item and it can also be acquired off of the hunt " Beasts Wallow In the Wetlands". The Fencer's anklet can be acquired in the Taelpar rest area or Lestallum merchants. It will increase the users vitality by +40. It is common loot in several areas of the game including Galdin Quay and wiz chocobo post. The hunt Stealers of Lives will reward the player with this accessory. Ereshkigal Aberich, and Salpinx enemies also have a 3% chance to drop this accessory.

The Knight's Anklet can be acquired off of the hunt Acquit Not Evil see the hunts section above in this guide for more details. It can also be purchased at Verinas mart and Meldacio Hunter HQ. It can be found as collectible loot in Steyliff grove and Pitioss ruins. Finally dungeon Gargoyle enemies and Ereshkigal enemies can drop this accessory with a 3% drop chance. It has a modifier of granting +45 vitality to the user which is the fist icon. The Crusader's Anklet drops off of Foras who is the emperor boss during chapter 13. It has a low drop chance and you only have one shot at it. It grants +50 to strength but can also be found constant off of the hunt King of the Great Escape in Altissia. The Champion's Anklet will increase vitality by +55 it also can be found in the Pitioss ruins dungeon. Finally, it is dropped by the Ziggurat enemy with a low chance around 4%. The Emperor's Anklet can be found in the Daurell Caverns dungeon, the Balouve Mines dungeon, and Steyliff Grove dungeon. It will increase your strength by +60.

Finally, the Anklet Of the Gods which can be acquired in the menace dungeons of Steyliff Grove and the Crestholm Channels. This will increae your vitality by +70 when worn. Be sure to check the entire two areas mentioned above if you did not acquire it and want everything in the game.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Amulets, Talisman, Earrings, and Circlets : 

These items will increase the wearer's magical power. This will result in more powerful spells when you use elemancy. The Amulet is very common and starts at +60 to magic. It will go all the way to +300 magic statistic boost if you use the Hypno Crown. All of these can stack for even more magic if used in all three accessory slots. Furthermore, you can go all out and use a huge perk meal such as Mage Master by eating a memory lane pastry meal. The Amulet, Angel Earing, and Talisman are purchasable throughout the world of Lucis. The Rune earring is blue loot collectible found in Pitioss ruins dungeon, Keycatrich ruins and Insomnia. The Circlet can be collected at Keycatrich, Balouve Mines, Glacial Grotto Maze, and Meldacio Hunter HQ. Oracle Earing can be found in Daurell Caverns and the Balouve Mines maze or menace dungeon areas. Finally, Both the Mystic Circlet and Hypno crown will be located at the hardest dungeon in the game. The Costlemark Tower menace dungeon maze below Costlemark Tower. This is a game recommended area of level 99!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bronze Bangle : 
A very common bangle made of bronze. You can find this in treasure chests, common loot and rewards from quests. It will increase your Hit Points ( HP ) by +50.

Iron Bangle : 
Common item, found as loot in treasure chests, sold at many merchants in the game and rewarded for completing hunts. This will increase your maximum HP by +100.

Silver Bangle :
This item is slightly more rare than the other bangles listed above. It will be rewarded later on in the game during higher level hunts and quests. It will increase your maximum Hit Points by +300.

Gold Bangle : 
This one is a bit more rare, but it can be found in several locations. The first of which is the Myrlwood which is a small dungeon, it should be right before or at the boss battle. You can also win it in a 10 Gil game of justice monsters five,you must get 50 Chocobo treasure chests. Also, you can acquire it from the hunt " A Most Behemoth Undertaking ". This item will increase your hit points by +500.

Carbon Bangle :  
A Bangle forged of carbon steel that will increase your maximum HP by +150 when worn as an accessory item. Sold at Verinas Mart and obtainable through the hunt at Galdin Quay, a Nightmare came by Ferry.

Titanium Bangle : 
A bangle forged of Titanium that will increase maximum hit points by +200 when worn as an accessory. You can get this item off of treasure spots on the map. Also, some hunts and side quest will reward this item. Finally, it can be found as random loot at several world locations. Overall it is a common item.

Platinum Bangle :         
The Platinum Bangle is a bit more rare than the previous bangles. It is forged completely of platinum and raises your maximum hit points by +700 when worn as an accessory on any character in the party. You can acquire this one from the Justice Monsters Five mini-game. Also can be found as loot in treasure chest on the map, or at Pitioss dungeon, Balouve mines, and Costlemark tower.

Centurion Bangle : [ No image ]
You can find this one at the Menace dungeon in Fociaugh near the 2nd campsite. It will increase your maximum HP ( Hitpoints ) by +1000.

Adamantite Bangle : 
This is a very powerful accessory that will increase your maximum HP by +1000! You can acquire it after beating the huge level 99 adamantoise. Please see the bestiary section for strategy and tactics on the giant beast.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Safety Bit : 

This is a great item to always keep in your inventory even for the entire party. They are a bit rare, but have a 1% chance to drop off several enemies including Yojimbo enemies. It protects the wearer from Instant Death attacks. This is great against Necromancer,Ronin, Yojimbo type enemies and thier buffed variations. They sell for a decent amount of gil. I would only let go of one for Gil if you already have 4 one for each party member, especially for later in the game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Megaphone : 
This awesome accessory is for Gladiolus only. It can be found when your first enter the Myrlwood dungeon. The Myrlwood dungeon is pretty small and this item is located in a corner before the campsite. The accessory will boost HP ( Hit Points ) regeneration for Prince Noctis and the entire party when equipped. It seems to be a classic throwback to Final Fantasy VII's Cait Sith { Kay shee } weaponry.

Black belt : 
Accessory exclusive to Gladiolus. It will increase strength and attack against massive foes. This mainly refers to boss or very large creatures/enemies in the game. It can be found deep within the Grotto Menace dungeon.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

White Sneakers : 

These sneakers are pretty strange, You can buy them in Lastallum marker at one of the shops in the big selling area. I have not tested them much, but apparently the player will get more dirt effects when worn. This means you basically get more dirty, from running around exploring. Pretty cool idea, It would have been nice to see them in the attire section as well.You may also like the effect when you use a lightning bolt near all your allies. With these on Noctis and crew look burnt to a crisp !

Bandage : 
You can purchase this at the Lastallum market area in the same exact place as the white sneakers. These both are a little expensive and also just novelty items. You may want to wait until you have more Gil later in the game. The bandage doesn't do much other then reduce the amount of "bloodstains" that appear on your party. I haven't noticed much of a difference either way.

Styling Gel : 
This can also be purchased at the Lastallum market, along with the white sneakers and bandage accessory items. This keeps your hair from losing it's style even during the harshest of conditions. I haven't seen this work much but I am guessing in rainy and wet conditions your hair style will remain like it normally does.

Handkercheif : 
This can be purchased along with the Towel at Wiz Chocobo Post. It will decrease the rate of dirt accumulation by 30%.

Towel :
This can be purchased with the Handkerchief at Wiz Chocobo Post. It will decrease the rate of dirt accumulation by 60%.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Potions :



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Potion :

 A common item that you can purchase from almost every shop in the game for around 50 Gil. It heals half of your current maximum HP ( Hit points ). In battle, your HP can be decreased below the maximum level and sometimes you need another item to recover it. This potion will once again only heal half of your current maximum hit points. They are still great to carry around even later in the game. They are cheap and can be used for a Level 99 Heal cast spell with the element of choice.

Hi-Potion :

Hi-Potion's will refill all of Noctis' hit points ( HP ). If your hit points are below maximum it will only refill the current maximum amount of Hit Points. You may use this on your allies and it only affects one ally or character at a time. They are common and fair priced in Gil. They are also useful even at higher levels in the game. I am around level 55+ and still use them very often. I would carry at least 20 Hi-Potions on Noctis at all times. Access these from the tactical menu screen and select. They are sold at the Regalia's in-car digital shop later in the game.

Ether :

Ether can restore your MP ( Magic Points ) to maximum with just one bottle. It sells for 100 Gil at most shops in the game and can be purchased in the Regalia's shop. Noctis is the only one who has MP so he is the only one capable of using Ether. Ether is useful even when traveling in the field and not in a battle. If you like to warp around with no weapon to move a bit quicker than you may consider holding some extra bottles of Ether. It is an important procurement potion to have on you at all times in Final Fantasy XV. These may also be used in elemancy crafting as a catalyst.

Antidote : 

Antidotes can cure poison status ailment. Poison can be received from enemies in battle. You or your parties Bio-Blaster attacks will not induce poison on you or your allies. If you are poisoned you should use an Antidote. Depending on how power the level of the enemies poison attack is you will suffer more or less damage over time. It is a wise idea to always have several of these items with you at all times. They are also useful in crafting your own, venomcast spells. Poison will also linger on you and your party after a battle an antidote will be needed in this scenario. They are very cheap next to their more potent substitute which is the remedy potion. This makes having both potions most viable in-game.

Elixir : 

One of the better procurement items in the game, the Elixir will refill all of your hit points and magic points to their current maximum capability. This means if your maximum HP falls below a certain point, even in danger zone, you will be cured to full status. Your HP can be increased by items,meals and accessories. These are quite expensive to purchase with Gil. However, Gladiolus can start finding them if you explore often at higher levels. If you find you have too many, consider selling some for Gil as they fetch a decent price.

Megalixir : 

You can purchase these with one Oracle Ascension coin, when you reach the Oracle Coin Collector in Altissia near Palsino street. These are pretty rare, they sell well and cost a ton of Gil. Loot chest on the map will sometimes reward the player with these. The item will cure Noctis and all party members back to their maximum amount of hit points. Once again this will also refill Prince Noctis MP to full as well. Gladiolus survival skill at around level 8+ will help him start acquiring these items after battles and sometimes just by exploring the field in Final Fantasy XV. Dave the hunter also will reward the player with some of these if you complete his quest line. Finally you can complete several hunts in the game which would reward you with megalixirs. Finally they are purchasable at almost every shop in the game including the Regalia online shop. They are a bit expensive but if you have the Gil this is one of the better procurement items in the game.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mega Potion : 

This potion is pretty potent as it will heal the entire party of all current hit points. If the party's hit points are below maximum it will only refill that amount. You will need a Megalixir to refill the maximum party HP as well. Overall these are useful to use quicker before the maximum hit points of the party go to low. These can be found as rewards from hunts and side-quests specifically from Dave the hunter. They can also be farmed from many treasure icon chests on the world map. If you need some and enjoy exploring either on foot or chocobo you can collect some of these. In fact with Gladiolus exploration skill at maximum you will find even more of these.

Remedy : 

A very useful and potent potion that can cure all status ailments. It is not the best catalyst and should be used wisely and mainly as a curing item. They can be slightly expensive early on in the game. You can purchase them off of many shops including the Regalia online store. Try not to use these too often when you can cure petrification with a gold needle. The reason is gold needles are cheaper and remedy is a cure all. This will save Gil early on and allow the player to stock up on remedy potions when the going gets tough later on. Double this idea if you don't have a ribbon accessory or two.

Smelling Salts :

This item is also pretty cheap but not as useful or needed as the Gold Needle. Remember you can cure all status ailments with a remedy. However, smelling salts will heal the confused status when you can not control Noctis. It is still useful and should always be carried regardless.

Gold Needle : 

One of the cheapest items in the game that is still very effective. This item cures petrified status ailment on all characters. As stated it is very cheap and useful vs necromancers and the naganita enemies. Naganita can be first encountered in a hunt or at crestholm channels dungeon. If I didn't have any gold needles I would have lost the fight so be sure to keep at least 20 handy at all times. They are cheap at around 10 Gil each and can be purchased all over the land of Lucis.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Phoenix Down : 

The ever classic Phoenix down will bring your knocked down allies back to life. It has a very nice look and animation this time around on all allies. Noctis can not use a Phoenix Down on himself. Phoenix downs are great, but they cost around 1,000 Gil each. This is quite expensive even later in the game. I personally like to explore and when I do sometimes Gladiolus picks them up with his Phoenix Finder perk. You may also find them in treasure chest icons as loot or sometimes as common loot. I would hold onto as many as you can and don't sell them.

Mega Phoenix : 

The Mega Phoenix has all allies that are knocked down use a Phoenix Down and bring them immediately back to full health. This is a very expensive item if you want to purchase them at in-game shops. They cost 4,000 Gil each, and they can also be sold for a nice amount as well. The Man in Altissia that trades Oracle Ascension coins for you will trade Mega Phoenix for one oracle ascension coin. This is a good deal sometimes as you can use them or sell for Gil. Unless you want the ribbon accessory. The player can find these in treasure chest icons on the map occasionally as Gladiolus can find them at times as well at the right skill level.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Items : (Continued)
Energy Drinks :

 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

You can purchase these from the Regalia towards the end of the main story line. These can be combined with other potion items to boost your statistics. Mettle V-X will increase your defense by 100. This can be stacked with Flesh Fortifier potion. You can not drink two Mettle V-X at the same time. The effect last for around 3 minutes. Spirit Z-X increases your magic attack power by 100. This can stack with other meal perks like Magemaster. It also works well with other magic type enhancement potions, such as Magi-Tek boosters. Power E-X is the strength enhancement beverage.

A Favorite of Gladiolus, all of these energy drinks can also be given to your party members. Power E-X last for 3 minutes on an estimate and increases your attack by 100. It can stack with other attack enhancement potions or procurement items. Finally, Verve W-X will increase your magic resistance by 100, this also can stack with other magic defense procurement items and potions/meals. They can be slightly expensive to keep up with if you have a habit of drinking them, however they add a nice mix to the potions on the tactical menu. Try out different load-outs and weapon setups with these you may learn something and have fun in the process.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ingredients :

 

Sheep's Milk : 

 I found that this ingredient is very useful for crafting spells. It sells for the lowest price in the game at 10 Gil. You can purchase these in Leide shops and at the Regalia later on in the game. This item is useful because you can combine it in a magic flask and get more spell casts, per magic flask. If you use 99 sheep's milk, which cost around 1,000 Gil. You can have SIX spells of Thundaga,Firaga,or Blizzaga in one magic flask. It is not the best combination in the world, but I like finding ways to use items like this one. 

Leiden Pepper :

Found near the root of bigger trees in the Leide Region. Can also be purchased from many shops and the Regalia's online shop. Being common it is used in many recipes, both common and uncommon. In particular, the Prairie Style Skewers which increase maximum hit points. It doesn't sell for much in the land of Lucis although, it is an option being it is so common.

Sweet Pepper :

Commonly sold item by the merchants of the Leide Region in the Kingdom of Lucis. This pepper is also found in the combat field, as a rarer pepper to it's Leiden counterpart. You can find some Sweet Pepper growing south of the campsite, which is south of the Prairie Outpost. It is used in several dishes including Prompto's favorite Burly Bean Bowl.

Leiden Potato : 

A Common ingredient that can be purchased at many shops in not only the Leide region but the entire game. Can be purchased in the Regalia online shop. This is not the best catalyst but it runs pretty cheap just in-case you need a catalyst for elemancy. The Leiden potato can make Veggie-Medley Stew which is a decent meal at the earlier levels of the game. I can not recall the item being abundant in the field. 

Dualhorn Steak : 

Commonly found off of the Dualhorn wildlife that makes it's natural habitat in the Leide Region. They have a very high percent chance to drop this as an ingredient item. It is used in many of Ignis dishes and he will learn a recipe when first acquired. They sell for a little amount of Gil and are not very good as spell crafting catalyst.

Hulldagh Nutmeg : 

This item is found at many shops throughout the game. One of which is in Altissia at Old Gobunant's boat. It doesn't sell for a high price but it is used in several recipes for Ignis cooking skill. You should also acquire some and possibly a recipe if you complete Takka's everyone loves beans quest.

Leiden Sweet Potato : 

This one is a bit rare and can be found off of the Berried Memories quest as a reward. You will also learn an amazingly good recipe here. Coctura will reward you with the sweet potatoes as well as a new dish at the Galdin Quay restaurant. If you eat the new dish you will learn the Memory-Lane cake recipe. This grants the party the Magemaster perk when consumed. This item can also be farmed at the Three Valleys on the world map. There will be a mountain on the map if you head north east of that mountain in the Three Valleys you should see some Leiden Sweet Potato growing. Be sure to farm it and than you have another piece towards being a Magemaster !
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Treasures :

 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Voretooth Bristles :

Voretooth Bristles can be farmed off of Voretooth enemies. They are pretty weak,small and easily defeated even at lower levels. Warp strike finishing kills will gain 1 AP each kill. Voretooth bristles are all scattered all over the den of Deadeye. You can use these as a catalyst if your low on other materials for crafting spells. I think every one voretooth bristle will increase your spells potency by 3. For a few more you probably get an extra cast as well, so they aren't too bad as a catalyst. They don't sell for much but that is always an option if your low on Gil as well.

Sabertusk Claw : 

These are pretty good as they are easy to farm off the Sabertusk enemy that usually roams the Weaver Wilds area. These enemies are easy to defeat, they are probably one of the lowest level enemies in the game. Each sabertusk claw will increase your spell potency by one. Every 3-4 sabertusk claws will increase your cast amount by one. So for 99 sabertusk claws you can get around 35 casts of any elemental spell. This is pretty good if you like to explore and could pack a punch with the right amount of elemancy.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rusted Bit :

A Common old rusted bit that can first be found in the Keycatrich ruins. This will upgrade the Engine blade for the first time if Noctis returns it to Cid at Hammerhead. They do not sell for much Gil and can be crafted. If you choose to craft or farm a bunch of these they will create a "failcast" type spell. I have not tested "failcast" enough but it seems to be apparently a fool's spell.

Chrome Bit : 

Chrome bit's become more available as you put time into the game. You will need at least one to upgrade one of your elemental absorbing weapons. They can be found at several locations in Eos as respawning blue glowing loot. On occasion you may be able to find them at a treasure icon as pink glowing loot.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Metal Scrap : 

This is a common item that will not sell for much Gil and is also not the best catalyst. A piece of medal of unknown origin can be sold for a small amount of Gil. I am pretty sure you can create Failcast spells with these. ( possible error ) See the spells section as I will update a bit of information on failcasting there.

Iron Shavings : 

Iron shavings are a great way to make  Failcast spell. They are pretty useless if you sell them and have no other known uses to me at least. Using these as a catalyst will create tons of cast that will most likely fail. The only reason too use these is to gain AP without harming your party. It would be a good idea to carry this spell around with the appropriate ascension tree perk that allows AP gain through spell casting. When you have that perk you may want to carry these in the field around enemies you know you can handle with ease. Every spell cast will gain 1 AP ( Ability Point ).

Shattered Timepiece : 

Shattered Timepiece seems to be a broken hand clock that can be used for parts as said by the in-game description of the item. I haven't found much use for them. The item sells for little Gil, however it is pretty common as respawning loot in the field. As a catalyst it is also not very good unless you have absolutely nothing.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Slimy Oil :

Slimy Oil is a slightly rare treasure that can be farmed off of Gigantoad enemies that lurk in the Duscae region mainly. In particular the Gigantoad only comes out when it is raining. If you want to farm Slimy Oil, sleep at an inn and wait until it is a rainy day. Travel to Taelpar Rest area and look at the map. Southeast near the Hulldagh Nutmeg is your best option to farm Gigantoads. They are level 27 so be sure to be much higher than that if you wish to farm successfully. Use your summon whistle to continuously spawn the Gigantoads. Remember that slimy oil drop is a rarity compared to the Gigantoad steak. Slimy Oil sells for little Gil, so it is better saved for crafting a certain spell called Cursecast. With Slimy Oil, you can get a level 99 Cursecast for just one Slimy Oil. Cursecast will lower the attack of your enemy at Level 99 for only one Slimy Oil, I found this quite useful.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Garula Tusk : 
This is an appendage drop from a garula enemy or green garula beast enemy. It can craft some dualcast elemental spells. Sells for a small amount of Gil is is quite common throughout the land of Lucis.

Garula Fur : 
This one is acquired with a 75% drop chance off of a Garulesa beast enemy in FFXV. It sells for 250 Gil and has a tricast effect when added as a spell elemancy catalyst.

Great Garula Tusk : 
You can farm these ones off of Garulesa beast enemies in-game. These beast can be found in the Alstor Slough region of Duscae. You can sell these for 700 Gil each and also earn them in Totomostro mini-game. The appendage of the Garulesa has a 100% chance to drop this treasure.

Hairy Horn : 
Farm these in the Galdin Quay region of the game. They can create a tricast spell and you can farm them quite easily off of Ashenhorn, Grandhorns and Oualhorns.

Hardened Hoof :  
Farm these off of Ashenhorn, Grandhorns and Dualhorns. These enemies are common all over the Leide Region and more.

Giant Hairy Horn :
These can create a tricast spell when used as a catalyst. They can be farmed off of Dualhorn enemies as well as Grandhorn and ashenhorns. They are harder to come by but will sell for a nice 1,400 Gil each !

Thick Hide : 
100% Chance to drop off of an aspidochelon.

Worn Incisor : 
100% appendage drop chance off of aspidochelon.

Coeurl Whiskers :
50% chance to drop off of a Coeurl and 100% chance to drop off an elder coeurl. Both are tough enemies so beware.Be sure to stack lightning resistance items and possibly a safety bit. Elder Coeurls were located for me in the grotto menace dungeon maze and they are tough. Elder Coeurls are a bit more abundant through-out the land of Lucis. They can cause death as a catalyst and even sell for a nice amount of Gil. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Key Items : 

. Mark of the Archaen .
. Mark of the Fulgarian . 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Vehicles :
The Regalia :
Music :

You can listen to various music tracks while cruising in the Regalia. You can also listen to them on foot once you acquire the portable MP3 player. To acquire the Portable MP3 player you must reach near Chapter 3 of the main quest line. This is subject to change if there is something more specific you must do. Purchase the portable MP3 player through the SHOP in the Regalia car.
---------------------------------------------------------
. Memories Of FF .
. Memories Of FFVII .
. Memories Of FFXIII .
. Memories Of FFIV .
. Memories Of FFVIII .
. Justice Monsters Five .
. Lucian Cruising Collection .
. Afrojack .
. Memories of FFX .
----------------------------------------------------------

All of the above soundtracks can be played in the Regalia and eventually on foot once you get the MP3 player. Note that the list above can all be purchased for around 100 gil from the SHOP at Hammerhead Station near the start of the game. Some of these come in the Regalia to start the game regardless.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Memories of Final Fantasy II .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy V .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy III .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy IX. ( disc one ) .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy IX. ( disc two ) .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy X .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy VI .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy XIV. ( disc one ) .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy XIV. ( disc two ) .
. Memories Of Final Fantasy Type-0 .
. Memories Of Dissidia FF .
. Memories Of Dissidia 012 FF.
. Memories Of Final Fantasy XI (complete 5 disc ).
. Memories Of Final Fantasy XII .
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Final Fantasy II Original Sound Track can be found in the Longwythe rest area shop for a low amount of Gil.
Final Fantasy V Original Sound Track can be found off the merchant in Galdin Quay. ( slightly later in the game ).
Final Fantasy III Original Sound Track can be found at Coernix Station near the Alstor Slough shop.
Final Fantasy IX Original Sound Tracks can be found at Coernix Station near the Cauthess disc shop.
Final Fantasy X Original Sound Track can be found at Wiz Chocobo Post shop. ( Zanarkand track is not in the game ).
Final Fantasy VI Original Sound Track can be found at Taelpar rest area.
Final Fantasy XIV Original Sound Tracks can be found at Coernix Station in Lastallum - Cleigne.
Final Fantasy Type-0 Original Sound Track can be found at Altissia shop.
Final Fantasy Dissidia Original Sound Tracks can be found at Old Lastallum - Cleigne.
Final Fantasy XI Original Sound Tracks can be found at Burbost Souvenir Emporium - Cleigne.
Final Fantasy XII Original Sound Tracks can be found at Verinas Mart in Ravatough .

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decals :

Decals and body paints for your car are quite interesting and fun gameplay mechanic. You can find some of these during quests and ore for the paint jobs all over the world of Final Fantasy XV. You will need ore to create certain paints to use for your Regalia/Vehicle as well as some GIL. This goes for every time you change your paint job. Ore can be found on the map at Mineral icon locations. The Mineral icon is the pickaxe, be sure to pick up the ore in the area they usually come in three.

Paint Jobs cover the entire body of your car. Some or certain decals well go over the entire body of the car and paint jobs. Smaller decals can be resized and used on any location of the car for the most part. You can even customize the interior of the Regalia and the wheels. Finally, you can upgrade components for  vehicle performance.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Hammer Head Decal .
. Beaux Arts Full Body Decal .
. Cactuar Decal .
. Moogle Decal .
. Chocobo Decal .
. Carbuncle Decal . + ( Full Body Decal ) .. a.k.a. Little Friend ...
. Wild Beasts Sticker .
. Luna Sticker .
. Regalia and Lucian King Crest Decals .
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Both of these decals can be purchased at the Hammerhead shop. I really enjoy the smaller decals so I went with the hammerhead decal first. Resized it and placed it right near the Regalia insomnia license plate on the rear of the car. This one is a bit cheaper than the bigger Beaux Arts decal. For a side note Beaux is pronounced ( BoH or like BOW and arrow ).
I am not a huge fan of the Beaux art decal however you may want to add it to your collection please see our video section at the end of this guide as it will cover just about all collectibles in the game including decals.

The Cactuar decal, Moogle decal, and Chocobo decal can be purchased for a decent price at the Wiz Chocobo Post main shop. These are actually all quite nice. I love the traditional Final Fantasy themes. They are also a bit new in design and some fans will appreciate these enough to put on the mighty Regalia car. Carbuncle or the little friend decal and full body decals can both be purchased at the shop In Altissia right outside the Leville hotel. The Luna Sticker can also be purchased at this very same shop. The Regalia Crest and Lucian King crest are both nice and can be found upstairs in the Cape Caem hideaway house. Be sure to check both left and right sides of the upper floor.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Racing Stripes . (1-5)
. Royal Stripes . 
. Flames . (1-3) ..
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Racing stripes come in many variations and can be found at many of the shops in the game. The racing stripes #1 can be acquired by completing the Cindy quest ever elegant regalia. Racing stripes #2 can be purchased along with Racing Stripes #3 at Coernix Station. Racing Stripes 4+5 can be purchased at Andare's shop at Galdin Quay area.Both royal stripes can be purchased at Burbost Souvenir Emporium. All flame decals can be purchased at  Lastallum, Moatte's Odds and Ends shop.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Beast Decal .
. Eos Decal .
. Pop Art Decal .
. Racing Stripes .
. Crownsguard .
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Beast decal is a really awesome looking full body decal that can be acquired once the merchant appears outside of Galdin Quay after completing the Power of Kings main quest. The Eos decal is a nice full body decal. I don't like it as much as the beast but you may want to add it to your collection. The Problem is it cost 8,000 Gil and can be purchased at the closest shop merchant once you reach Lastallum. I suggest doing 1-2 of the photo quest with Vyv, see the side quest section for more detail. You can acquire tons of Gil from helping Vyv early on. The pop art decal is pricey at around 5,000 Gil. Sold at Wiz Chocobo post. I am not too into it but you may want to add it to your collection.

Racing stripes can be acquired off of various in-game merchants and shops. I will have a full list soon enough. They are pretty cool and nice to have to your collection. Currently, I believe there are 5 sets of racing stripes,stay tuned for more.

The crownsguard decal is pretty sweet. You can find it once you reach Cape Caem and walk from the Hideaway house to the grave of Jared. It is a pretty nice little area and adds some deepness to the game. Despite not knowing Jared much in-game the characters surrounding Noctis make a big deal of him, especially Talcott who becomes a very well developed character later in the story. The grave shows a sign of serenity,peace and mutual respect that is almost life like for the characters in the game. On Jared's grave will be the crownsguard decal. Pick it up then head to Cindy at hammerhead to check it out.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Upgrades :

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Auxiliary Tank: Bought from Lestallum Coernix Station ..
. Magitek Generator: Won from Altissia Colosseum [ Tottorosso Monster Game ]...
. Fiberglass Coating: Cindy's Questline Reward....
. Reinforced Fiberglass Coating: Bought from Verinas Mart - Ravatogh....
. Superhydrophobic Coating: Bought from Altissia Vendor [ Near Leville Hotel ]...
. Enhanced Headlights: Cindy's Questline Reward...
. Supercharger: Cindy's Questline Reward....
. Turbocharger: Won from Altissia Colosseum [ Tottorosso Monster Game ]...
. Aero Wax: Cindy's Questline Reward....
. Airflow Compensator: Bought from Lestallum Coernix Station....
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Auxiliary Tank well increase Fuel efficiency enabling the Regalia to use less gas per mile. The Magi-Tek Generator can be won in Altissia at the monster mini-game area. It will completely allow no fuel to be used in the basic Regalia. Fiberglass coating removed dirt build up. Reinforced Fiberglass Coating further reduces dirt build up. Superhydrophobic coating will completely stop all dirt from forming on the Regalia. Enhanced headlights will not allow demons to attack you while driving the roads at night. The Super and Turbo chargers will increase overall speed. The Airflow Compensator offers better handling of the Regalia as does the Aero Wax.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Vehicle Colors :

These are the minerals that you can find to change the color of the Regalia or the Regalia Type-F. They are located at the Mineral deposits all over the land of Lucis. You may still have to pay some Gil at Cindy for some of these color changes to work.
Whitestone Shard
Blackstone Shard
Redstone Shard
Bluestone Shard
Greenstone Shard
Yellowstone Shard
Silver Dust
Gold Dust
Prismatic Dust
Whitestone Ore
Blackstone Ore
Redstone Ore
Bluestone Ore
Greenstone Ore
Yellowstone Ore
Silver Shard
Gold Shard
Prismatic Shard
Whitestone Crystal
Blackstone Crystal
Redstone Crystal
Bluestone Crystal
Greenstone Crystal
Yellowstone Crystal
Silver Ore
Gold Ore
Prismatic Ore	 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chocobos : 

You can not use a Chocobo until you complete the Friends of a Feather quest. You should be at least level 15 to start the quest. It will lead you into a hunt quest to kill Deadeye a unique monster. To start the quest make sure to select the Deadeye HUNT once again from the tipper at Wiz Chocobo Post. This is also listed longer in the main walkthrough and side quest sections of this guide. To find Deadeye, head to the map marker. Be careful as you follow it back to its den by sneaking and keeping a close distance without alerting the beast.

Once you reach the den of Deadeye, use the explosive barrels to do tons of damage and gain AP. You can also use a high potency fire elemancy spell. For example,  Tricast Fira or better yet Firaga x3  will make quick work of Deadeye at even levels close to 20. Once Deadeye is done for, head back to the tipper to complete the quest and you gain now rent Chocobo, race Chocobos and even Customize them ! Use the R2 tactical menu then hit left on the D-PAD to bring the WHISTLE menu up. Use the Chocobo whistle while you have a rental in the over world only, you can not summon in most towns.

Chocobos can also gain levels the more you use them. Whenever a level is gained your Chocobo learns a new perk. Some of these include stamina and gliding boost or increases. Other's have different effects. You may have noticed some battle type skills for the Chocobo. You can not use this manually until the Chocobo is a certain level. For the low-level Chocobo riders the Chocobo will perform these skills automatically when your Chocobo is near a battle.

Carbuncle can be summoned and buff you and your party. However, this is only possible on easy mode, to get it activate you must die than Carbuncle will assist you. You can test it out by changing to easy and normal mode at any time in the game options menu.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Chocobo Medals :
-------------------------------------------------

. Replica Medal .
. Rounsey Medal .
. Destrier Medal .
. Courser Medal .
. Fat Chocobo Medal .
. Short Course Medal .
. Long Course Medal .
. Jennet Medal .
. Jockey Master Medal .
--------------------------------------------------

As a slight warning, chocobo races can be tough and annoying. The rewards are more about just being a completionist more than being useful. All the medals look pretty identical and I really wish they had something interesting. It would have been nice to see a mini Ramuh or Typhon hanging from the Chocobo's neck rather than a simple medal. Another good idea would have been Different illuminating colors for the Chocobo light. Sometimes I wonder how hard that could have been or did the developers just plain not think of these little things?

Medal's are another customization feature for your Chocobo. They can wear up too four medals next to their illuminating build on their breast. To acquire more medals you must complete Chocobo race challenges. For the Replica Medal, you start with this one. The Rounsey medal can be acquired from beating Prompto in a race. The Destrier Medal can be acquired by beating Gladiolus in a race and then Courser Medal for beating Ignis. If you complete the Full Field section of the Chocobo races you will receive the fat chocobo medal.

The Short course and Long course medals can be acquired for completing the two Chocobo hoops sections of the races under a certain time. Keep practicing and eventually you should get it ! You can acquire the Jennet Medal by beating Iris and finally will get the Jockey Master Medal for completing all of the above. One word of advice is to complete Wiz of the Chocobo quest entire questline first. This will net you all of the greens for your Chocobo. Afterward, you can rest at a campsite and feed your Chocobo the best greens than head to the races. This should increase your odds of winning by a lot and make things much easier.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chocobo Feathers :

-------------------------------------------------
. Xelphatol Apple Seeds .
. Doman Plum Pits .
. Mamook Pear Seeds .
. Valfruit Seeds .
. O'Ghomoro Berry Seeds .
. Celdalaes Pineapple Seeds .
. Han Lemon Seeds .
--------------------------------------------------

The apple seeds will allow you to change the color of your Chocobo to red and pink. The Doman plum pits can change Chocobos colors to blue and teal. Mamook pear seeds can change the colors of your Chocobo to green and yellow-green. To change the colors of your Chocobo talk to the woman at Chocobo Wiz Post and select customize. To acquire these changes and items you must complete the " Where the Wild Chocobo's Are " quest from Wiz at the Chocobo Post.

To acquire the next group of seeds you must complete the Chase that Chocobo quest. It is rather simple and be sure to have a potion with you from the Regalia before you head to the location. Use the potion on the Chocobo and return to Wiz at chocobo post. Wiz will reward you with the Valfruit seeds, the O' Ghomoro Berry seeds, The Han lemon seeds, and the Celdalaes Pineapple seeds. You will also get the Amber color chocobo from this which is my personal favorite. Next would be the pale grey chocobo which is also nice.

Secret Chocobo Pears : [ more colors ]

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
. Cieldalaes Pear . [ Prompto and full field races ]
. Xelphatol Pear .  [ Gladiolus and Iris Races ]
. Han Pear .          [ Ignis and Rocky Road Races ]
. Doman Pear .     [ Prompto and Ignis Races ]
. Mamook Pear .   [ Chocobo Hoops Races ]
. O'Ghomoro Pear .[ Ignis Full field NIGHT only ]
. Val Pear .           [ Rocky Road ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chocobo Greens :

-------------------------------------------------
. Gyshal Greens .
. Mimmet Greens .
. Reagan Greens .
. Curiel Greens .
. Sylkis Greens .
--------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Regalia Type-F :
 

Another quest completed and another awesome surprise. I am sure many have already seen it in action,but to have your hand behind the controller and watch it on the big screen is another story ! I assure you will be pleased if you find the time to get this vehicle upgrade. People are complaining about the control a bit. It is hard to land but the flying is very enjoyable. I am still getting used to it, but it would also be nice to go a bit faster. Since you can auto travel, it is not really about time I guess, but the enjoyment. Also, knowing how important having an airship is in a Final Fantasy game to the fans. I am quite amazed at the overall design as well. It seems so realistic to me and the deployment and take off for the first time are very nice. SquareEnix hit it right again and I am glad they did ! More surprises to come stay tuned.

To get the Regalia Type-F you must or should complete the main game. If you Infiltrate the first two bases and defeat the bosses at the end you will get two of the Regalia Type-F key items. Next, I suggest doing this after beating the game, or it may not show up is to head to Weaver Wilds. From Weaver Wilds go a bit north and you should hear some ships and eventually see some Magi-Tek power in red hues. A Quest will pop up near Prairie Outpost, about Formouth Garrison. The recommended game-level is 46 on my estimate. I went in at level 55 and just stormed the base pretty easily. The only trouble I had were vs Calico and Loci again. They are in two huge Magi-Tek armored machines. However, towards the end I realized the two turrets. Just use both of them on Calico and Loci and it should be a breeze from that point.

When you are done Return to Cindy at Hammerhead and she will make the Regalia Type-F. It looks awesome and you should be as pleased as I was :) Just be careful landing and remember you can total the vehicle much easier than before. If the vehicle gets in bad shape it is going to cost 2,000 Gil to fix from Cindy each time.
Bestiary :

 

Yojimbo :

You may first encounter Yojimbo in the Fistful of Gil hunt. He is a formidable foe with capability of causing Instant Death. Yojimbo has +50% Resistance to fire attacks. Firearms and polearms will deal 20% increased damage against Yojimbo. Yojimbo is resistance to Alterna spell from the Ring of the Lucii. Yojimbo is immune to instant death attacks. Lightning and Light attacks will deal 20% increased damage against Yojimbo. A Level 54 Yojimbo will give 2,025 experience points when defeated. Yojimbo can be parried and that is one of the best ways to take him down. Reflex enhancer potions is also a nice option if your having trouble taking too much damage VS Yojimbo.

I fought about 6 Yojimbo enemies thus far and mainly tested out Katana of the Warrior with strength buffs. I figured a nice katana battle might be interesting and it was fun, but proved rather weak. Yojimbo has pretty good defenses at 245 with no negative modifiers against sword attacks. The katana would possibly count as a sword. This may not be true because it is a Royal Arms weapon, and I am not quite sure how that factors in just yet.

Yojimbo can also be encountered in the Crestholm Channels dungeon and Costlemark Tower dungeon. He may show up in a few more places later in the game. Yojimbo will drop a safety bit which nullifies instant death on any character that wears it. This is a great option for accessory when doing battle with Yojimbo. 

Kengo :

This is the enemy that we saw once or twice near the start of the game and during one of Dino's quests. Remember sneaking around him to get a gem earlier ? Well this is that enemy and now is our chance to take it down ! The Bennu as shown in the banner card is weak vs the noise blaster. I have a video on this and it's quite entertaining. For some reason I thought using the Noise blaster would stun the Bennu and it does. Really nice touch by square making use of certain types of weaponry on different enemies. Whenever you cast the (MP) consuming noise blasting ability of the weapon, it will stun the Bennu for a few moments. This leaves him open to attacks mainly from your allies, as it still takes time to switch weapons. When he is knocked down you can target several of his appendages and even use the basic blast from the Noise Blaster for pretty good damage. You must get close in to do damage with the basic cannon of the Noise Blaster.

This was one of the most fun battles I have had so far in the game and it comes much later on. It is nice to know just how well the combat system compliments itself near the end of the game. The head of the Bennu can take 10% more damage from fire attacks and the entire creature takes an extra 20% damage from fire overall. The Bennu is resistant to lightning by 50% and immune to light attacks ( Ring of Lucii ). Bennu is completely immune to, instant death,poison,alterna,and stop. The Bennu will drop 24% Lightning elemancy if you defeat him with an absorbing weapon like the Engine Blade.

The Bennu can be parried, when it is flying around in the air and than finally swoops down at Noctis. Be sure to get the Bennu on this parry attack as it will render the beast to vulnerable state and you can follow up with tons of attacks on many of it's body parts. The best method would be to go for his head, however it is a large creature and you may waste more time trying to do so. When you defeat Bennu you will be rewarded with the Jet Black Beak a key item. Also, you will receive, 5230 experience points making an experience cast spell viable and of much use against this enemy.

Necromancer :

You will first encounter the Necromancer in the part of three main quest. They are not as difficult in this segment of the game as they become later on. You will meet them again in three other hunts. One hunt in specific is the " Things from the past " which is in the creepy Fallgrove area a little northwest of Costlemark Dungeon. You will encounter a pack of 3 Necromancer's here they summon skeletons and can cause instant death as well as petrification. To cure being petrified you must use a gold needle. These are cheap and remember to buy some from many shops in the game or the Regalia. 

The Necromancer implies dark attacks mainly as well as the petrification and the instant death grab attack which is cast after a nasty dark spell. You will gain 455 experience points without an expericast for every level 41 necromancer that you defeat. Necromancers can be counter attacked right before they cast the death angle spell ( Dark Blue Triangle) This spell can petrify Noctis and the party. However, the parry does not do much damage and you must get in close to do this. Getting close to a Necromancer makes you susceptible to the Instant Death grab attack. You want to avoid this all-together so stay at a range with the Auto-Crossbow Plus and the Bow of the Clever Royal Arms. Since you will be using the secondary function of the auto-crossbow, this will consume MP ( magic points ). When you are out of MP switch over to the Bow of the Clever, be sure to keep your distance at all times. The auto-crossbow does tons of damage and is a 6 hit combination with chance of critical hits. The Bow of the Clever is weaker but a nice backup to keep the fire on the Necromancers. If you get too close or they come to close to you just roll or warp away.

Necromancers will drop a Rainbow Pendant with a 3% drop chance. They take 120% more damage to Ice attacks. 50% less damage to Lightning and 120% increased damage from light attacks. This made me consider the HOLY spell from ring of the Lucii as an option. However you must be at close ranges and like stated in the latter it is too dangerous. The Necromancer employs all dark based attacks, so dark resistance will help greatly. Also a Safety Bit accessory will stop the instant-death attacks and you can farm those off of Yojimbo enemies. The enemy also summons skeletons, but at ranges this is not a problem. However, Gladiolus TEMPEST technique should make quick work of the low level 12 skeletons. This is an amazing enemy overall and one of the best basic fights you can run into in the game. 

Psychomancer :

A simple enemy that is commonly found near the Vesperpool area of the kingdom of Lucis. They are at base level 18 creatures and are rather easily defeated even early on in the game. They will drop the Sahagin scale which sells for little Gil but is a potent catalyst in spell crafting. For every 2 Sahagin scales you will gain an extra cast of any spell. The potency will also increase slightly. This is good because farming Sahagin scales are rather easy as they come in groups of four or five mainly. If you wish to farm them go to the location near the fishing hole at the Vesperpool. If they don't reappear after using the Summon Whistle. Walk away a slight distance from their respawn point and then come back. They should respawn with another pack Sahagin. You can also gain some AP for getting warp strike kills easily on these enemies.

The Sahagin will also drop fire elemental energy if you have any absorb weaponry on your party. They are weak too ice by 120% and resistant to fire (-50%) and Light attacks (-50%). However death spell from the ring of the Lucii still works pretty good. Machinery, polearms and sword weapons all have the 120% damage bonus increase against Sahagin. 

I was experimenting with this enemy and for a while couldn't figure out a good way to take it down even at high levels. I read somewhere on the web that you should break the chains on his hands and then follow up with blind-side strikes to it's back. I found that breaking the bracelets on the arms of the Red Giant didn't work as well as breaking his chest armor. Once his chest armor is broken it will reveal a huge red core that can take extra damage by around +30%. I guess when this core is revealed that all appendages of the Red Giant become weaker. 

Using the Sword of the Father because it allows you to stay in the air longer after a warp strike. After the initial warp strike hold down or press circle and make sure you are targeting the chest of the iron giant. Know that your overall strength statistic will determine how fast the giant's chest armor will break. If you find the Red Giant dying before you break it's chest armor, raise your strength statistic. Strength can be increased by Royal Arms weapons , such as the Axe of the Conqueror. You can also equip sapphire,ruby,or emerald bracelet items to increase Strength. Furthermore, you can also drink a Power drink or take a Muscle Stimulant item from the potion section of your Tactical Menu. If you combine all of these together you should break the giant down very quickly even at lower levels.

If you do the above and than get a counter attack on the red giant it is going to deal massive damage and overall that is the best way to take down a Red Giant quickly. However, getting the counter can be difficult during the battle, look for the attack that leaves the sword stuck in the ground at the end from the Red Giant. The Red giant is immune to Alterna, death and stop attacks or spells. He is weak vs Light attacks by +120% this would only leave Holy left as an option. Holy is ok but the Red Giant has way too much HP for it to be super effective quickly. All other weapons including machinery deal -50% less damage to the giant when his core is not revealed. The Red Giant employs gravity and fire based attacks, so if your taking too much damage try using some Fire protective gear or accessory. The Thermal suit will work here as well even though it is an attire item.

Iron Giant :

Fire Bomb and Fire Grenades :  

First let's start off with the basic bomb which is made of fire. These guys are susceptible by +400% to ice damage. This makes always having a blizzard spell vs them an intelligent approach. They also take some damage to light attacks + 120% making the ring of the Lucii the only other option if you are out of ice elemancy. The holy attack is really good early on vs basic bomb enemies and their kin alike. The grenade is a little bit more difficult because it has more Hit Points and can pack out more damage. Remember this enemy can absorb fire damage. You will gain a nice amount of Fire elemancy if you are using an absorb weapon like the absorb shield or drain lance and defeat the bomb enemies. The Grenade variation can even summon up to 3 smaller bomb enemies with an explosive attack. Grenades are still susceptible to anything the bomb is susceptible too except they are more powerful. The bottom line is Ice spells FTW ( for the win ). If you have no ice magic switch over to ring of the Lucci and use sword or dagger attacks to lower their health bar +120% (swords,daggers).

Ice Bomb and Cryonades : 

This is the same exact idea as the Fire bombs and fire grenades except these guys and girls are made of ice. They are susceptible to fire attacks by +400%. They will drop an ice crest with a 1% drop chance. They will give the player ice elemental energy upon absorbing after their demise. In particular though, fire arms and machinery do 120% damage to ice bombs and cryonades where swords and daggers do the extra 20% damage to fire bombs and grenades. Finally both of these enemies are resistant to Alterna spell.

Thunder Bombs and Galvanades :

These enemies are an exception to the rule. There is no spell that can counter them except for light spells which only give a +120% increase. This makes them the hardest bomb type enemy in the game, especially Galvanades. They are really tough in packs and take a long time to kill. These guys are going to be trouble for a speed run. I still think Holy is a good option as may be the Cerberus sniper rifle or any fire arm for that matter. Try and take their health down until they are about to explode then switch over to the ring of the lucii. Get ready to dodge to deal the holy damage which will hopefully explode the bomb into other enemies. They are tough and I will keep this section updated if I get a better tactic.

Adamantoise : 

I was live streaming this battle with some of my friends on twitch including karpomusick ! One of my friends simm croo suggested a strategy for the battle. Of course the true hardcore gamer in me did not want to just go right ahead with the strategy. I had to test things out for myself. I failed and I failed over and over again. My friend said attack from the sides I went for the head. He said use daggers, I used royal arms. Most importantly he said to combine enhancement an Ignis skill with daggers and pump strength statistic. I didn't listen ! This made me was a good 45 minutes when the battle could have been done at a much faster time. After 45 minutes of tinkering I gave in. Well thanks sim croo, saori and karpomusick for hanging out here is our Adamantoise strategy !

First you should know that you can go to camp and get a good meal. I used last stand which was a horrible idea. Use something that pumps attack power and possibly hit points. Magic is good in this battle but the true power comes from the daggers and the Armiger attacks combined with enhancement from Ignis. Pump strength/attack with any accessory items you can. Usually this means diamond bracelets,ruby bracelets and the like. feel free to even equip strength enhancing items on other members of the party. However I do like black belt and megaphone on Gladiolus which are specific only to his character.

Make sure you have Ulric's Kukris you can get them by seeing the information in the weapons section above in this guide. These were a huge help in the battle and once I started using them the tides turned greatly. They attack quick and I even reach an over 250 hit combination with them equipped. Use royal arms to buff the damage of the Ulric's Kukris. Make sure Ignis is using Enhancement technique which uses two bars of meter every time it is triggered. Piercer technique on Prompto is a one tech-meter user and is a viable second option. Use the Ulric's Kukris and than enhance them with Ignis and be sure or at least try to attack the sides of the Adamantoise. You may have to warp around a bit to get good angles and also to be able to use your techniques.

Ulric's Kukri's are one of the highest damaging daggers in the game. Not only that, they have good statistics and a hidden MP/HP regeneration affect? Gladiolus Megaphone will also help with the HP ( Hitpoints) of Noctis and the party. The Ulric's Kukris will build up the Armiger at a very fast rate. Combine the basic attacks with enhancement than go into your Armiger when it is ready.Finally use circle attacks with your Armiger and wait for it. Once it is about to fully deplete hit R1+L1 and release the Armiger Chain attack ! You should be able to pull this off at around one Armiger per minute if all of your Ulric Kukri attacks hit. In the meantime you are still putting out nice damage from the enhanced Ulrics Kukris. The Megaphone should be healing the entire party and you may have very little need for potions even at around 20 levels below the Adamantoise. I was level 80+ When I took on the hunt for the Adamantoise.

In conclusion this was one of the best fights in the game ! I loved using the Ulrics Kukris and Armiger combination against the Adamantoise. You will be rewarded with one super overpowered item that is the Adamantite Bangle. This increases your base and maximum Hit Points "ridiculously". I am pretty sure the HP gain or hit point increase is well over 4,000. The item is worth it alone as is the battle and journey to get it.

MA-X Angelus :

The MA-X Angelus will only spawn after you have completed the entire main story of the game.It is a level 99 optional enemy battle that is really tough especially if you aren't level 99.
The trick mainly is to hit it's body or when it releases rockets. This can be difficult at times but I have come up with some tips after fighting several of them for hours. Also note they drop two versions of the magi-tek suit which is a very powerful accessory item. They will drop Magi-tek suit version 1.0 and 2.0 The latter version is more rare with a 3-5% drop chance and more powerful. It will increase maximum hit points as well as vitality and strength.

The first thing you should do is look for the Angelus. It can spawn in various areas throughout the game.I found the most spawn points near the Midgardsormr snake which is at the plunge waterfall area or the Grotto dungeon area.After it spawns quickly hit the pause button and go to options. It may be cheap but it will save you valuable time.Switch over to easy mode and than simply die. You will see the words Ruby Light appear on the screen. This is the easy mode carbuncle buff which will increase tons of statistics for your party.

Afterward, you may be best suited with the Zwill crossblades. If you don't have those use Ulric's Kukris and finally if you have neither use the strongest pair of daggers that you have. Keep teleporting to it's square body and attacking. Let your Armiger build up and use the Enhancement technique with ignis as often as you can. Once the Armiger is full you can release it and use tons of attacks. Do this until it is almost depleted than release your Armiger chain attack.It should not take too long for the MA-X Angelus to go down this way and you will save tons of procurement items.

Finally, If you want an even easier time, go to a campsite first and eat the highest critical hit increasing meal you can find.If you don't have the best one, try fish sticks on sticks. As a matter of fact any critical hit chance increase is worth your time to save you time for this exceptionally tough fight. You will gain a nice amount of experience points and the magitek suit. Keep farming with this method to get as many Magitek 2.0 suits you would like.

MA-X DUB :

MA-X PATRIA :

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Classic Final Fantasy :
Final Fantasy :

 

Sephiroth7734 Deviantart - [ logo art ]

A little bit on the original Final Fantasy game for the NES first hitting the United States in 1987. It was apparently Squaresoft's last hope as they were facing bankruptcy and if it failed they were done for. I don't believe that story too much as I heard it about 50 times. However, the game eventually sold really well in Japan and they brought it to the United States. I played this one very little and people claim that it is excellent. It has been remade and remastered several times. Once a remake on the GBA ( GameBoyAdvance ) and another on the PSP ( Playstation Portable ). The PSP version looks excellent and I believe there are a few minor game-play changes. Once again the PSP version seems like the best place to play it. If you want to try the original as well go for it you should know where to look for your old NES! I just personally couldn't get into the game much I will give it another shot on the PSP if anything and hopefully add more to this section. Please enjoy my research on this game if I don't get a full hands on analysis of playing the game myself.
 

 

Garland : 

Garland is the main villain in the original Final Fantasy Game. I did not play this game much but I have done some research. Apparently he becomes the final boss of the game. You will beat him right before the games actual Final Fantasy logo opening sequence. However, he has or attempted to create a time loop to have him exist forever. When you kill him at the start of the game I am guessing the party somehow passes through the loop in time to meet him again. At the end of the game he will take form as the first end game villain of Final Fantasy known as Chaos.

Chaos : 

Chaos was the final boss of the original Final Fantasy game released in Japan on the NES. Chaos is actually Garland who is listed above the first boss of the game. He has created a time loop and you will have to fight him again at the end of the game in his Chaos Form.

The trick to beating Chaos on the NES and later versions of the game was mainly to use an item called the Giant's Gloves. These can be found in the sunken shrine dungeon of the game. You can use the Giant's Gloves as an item and it will always cast Saber. It can stack multiple times resulting in the user to deal extra damage. You should also be using the NUL spell with a white mage because Chaos has many elemental attacks. Finally you may also want some more buffs with a black mage. Note this is based upon some quick research I never beat Chaos myself. All the strategies and videos I have seen that beat him were using the Giant's Gloves at around level 50 for each character. If you don't have the gloves or the level be sure to get both if your having trouble with Chaos.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final Fantasy II :

 

Sephiroth7734 Deviantart [ Logo Art ]

Final Fantasy II started a large amount of new ideas and what later became staples to the series. For one it implemented a strange pass code system. This pass code system could be used to find secrets in the game among other things. It had the character interacting with the NPC ( Non playable characters ) in the game. It made the player actually pay attention to what was going on instead of skipping through the large amount of texts in the game. This made people actually read the story if they were playing and many realized that there was a good story worth listening too. 

Final Fantasy II also introduced a new leveling up mechanic and might have been the first game to release an idea that would be later used in legendary titles such as the Elder Scrolls Skyrim. In Final Fantasy II your powers leveled up the more you used them. This made for more replay value and in most cases a larger amount of fun. If you used a ton of magic just as an example, your magic skill would increase and you may gain more spells or more powerful magic. The system was very new and not perfect but it is a system that should be implemented more in games today. I personally loved it in Skyrim and the only drawback may be the amount of time it takes to level everything for the completionist gamer. Square tried to fix this problem by making tons and tons of battle encounters in the game very frequent.

Chocobo riding was also introduced in this installment of Final Fantasy. This was the first game we were able to see and work with Chocobo's! I also believe it was the first time we would hear the Chocobo theme and of course the music was composed by Nobuo Uematsu. This was his seventeenth installment of music in a video game and what was to become the most powerful franchise he has ever worked with.

The game also sets a bunch of unique characters unlike the first game. These characters all have names and back stories. Firion is the white haired protagonist of Final Fantasy II and is the adopted friend of Maria and and Leon who are two other playable characters. Maria and Firion become a romance in the novel on the game. However in the actual game this remains unseen. There are several other characters in the game and apologies for the spoilers but some of them even die off. The game is stated by many to show the truth about war. The truth that there is nothing glorious about war and being a hero is not what games today make it out to be. A Fine example of this was shown in a very good Youtube video showing some clips of Final Fantasy XIII.- Darkpixelgaming -

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final Fantasy III :

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final Fantasy IV :

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final Fantasy VI :

 

Final Fantasy 6 is an amazing game and currently my favorite in the series.You have an amazingly crazy villain named Kefka. around fourteen playable characters that all have their own set of abilities, skills, magic, and back stories. Nobuo Uematsu has composed the music and some of the best graphics to come from a 20+ year old game I have ever seen.

This is one of the best Final Fantasy games in my opinion if not the best. There is just too many good things to say about it and I really am considering it to be a masterpiece game.
It ranks up there on my list with Castlevania: Symphony of the Night and Super Metroid. If you thought Final Fantasy VII was good and have not tried the older games. This should be the game you start with. It is 14.99 on steam and is well worth it, with upgraded user interface and graphics. It supports Xbox one controller as well as mouse and keyboard and you can play in windowed mode. More to come soon as I plan on updating this section greatly.

Locke Cole :

Locke is the theif class of Final Fantasy VI.This is interesting because all of the characters in Final Fantasy 6 have unique traits and abilities as well as strange class types.Many of these were never before seen or at least done as well as they were in Final Fantasy VI.Locke Cole calls himself a treasure hunter and is quick to help a damsel in distress.Many players from around the web that are big fans of the series and this game particularly think Locke Cole is one of the better characters in the game.I agree with the latter at the moment. Locke is a good character. Cole is interesting and fun to have in the party.He has an awesome Moonring blade that is quite a surprise on top of what is already an amazing combat system.Knowing that certain characters can only use certain weapons along with their unique skills increases the game's fun factor greatly.

Locke is one of the fastest characters in the game.His closest rival to me at the moment would be Gau.This makes Locke an interesting character when equipped with the Hermes Sandals that you can find in Zozo town right before finding esper Terra. In Zozo you can also find the Brigand glove which will give Locke Cole the mug command over steal. Mug seems to do the same amount of damage as a basic attack and will steal an item at the same time. This may make Locke's basic attack useless but it also makes his command skill more potent. In other words, it is very beneficial to the player that uses Locke often in his or her party.The stamina statistic is also quite interesting when combined with Locke's evasion statistic.Evasion is high for locke and determines how many attacks will miss.Stamina is a rare statistic that hasn't been seen in newer final fantasy games.It will increase resistance to Death and poison. It will increase the amount of life healed from Regen and tintinnabulum. Finally, it determines how much HP is lost from sap and HPleak.You can increase your Stamina in very few ways one of which is leveling up Ramuh summon magicite.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon - Carbuncle : Ruby Light ::

Carbuncle summon returns in Final Fantasy VI with all of its charm and glory! Sadly I thought we would see more of Carbuncle in Final Fantasy XV. I guess this is why we get to go back to the old games. In Final Fantasy VI I feel Carbuncle is pretty powerful as a summon and as a Magicite overall. For 36 magic points, you will be able to summon Carbuncle. When summoned he will cast his most popular Ruby Light on all allies. Ruby Light will virtually cast a form of reflect on all allies. Reflect will repel a magical elemental attack cast on an ally back at the enemy caster. This can only be done once per cast of Reflect or even one cast of Ruby Light. You can also learn the Reflect spell from Carbuncle but it will only cast on one character at a time.

You will find the Carbuncle summon and magicite once you get to the Magitek research facility and complete it. You will also acquire a few more espers in that area. Be sure to test it out a bit as it may even prove useful in the fight against the crane due to their high magic elemental damage output. As for statistics, you will gain +1 to magic every time you level up with Carbuncle summon equipped. Equipped characters will also gain certain spells over the course of time when Carbuncle is in use. Reflect as spoken of earlier will cast reflect on one ally. This ability will reflect an elemental spell back at the enemy caster once. Haste will speed up an ally by about double normal time. This is a very useful spell and can be cast on one ally at a time as well. Protect will increase physical damage resistance. Shell will increase magical damage resistance. Finally, Teleport will warp the entire party directly out of any battle unless you are unable to flee.

Graphically this game is old and it would have been nice to have some animation frames to the summons. Well, we do have some pretty good lightning effects and some of the spells cast by the espers do move. I am just happy that overall there is so much awesome content in such an older game. Carbuncle retains his charm in Final Fantasy VI then and even today he holds up to the masterpiece of a name, Final Fantasy VI.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon - Ramuh : Judgement Bolt ::

Ramuh has been a staple in the Final Fantasy series for a long time. He can be summoned for the price of 25 MP ( magic points ) in Final Fantasy VI. His spell Judgement Bolt has a spell power of 50 and is unblockable. Graphically Ramuh is just a picture thrown on the screen with some pretty good still artwork. His lightning attack, however, has a nice moving animation with good lighting effects. Ramuh will be one of the very first summons or espers you acquire in the game. You will see Ramuh in sprite and physical form and actually have a conversation with the demi-god in Final Fantasy VI.

As for the skills learned with Ramuh, you will eventually gain the ability to cast the Thunder spell on any character that learns the ability with Ramuh magicite equipped. The party member will also eventually learn Thundara and finally poison. The party member will also gain +1 to stamina upon level up. This is a rare statistic that increases the chance of enemy spells such as doom to fail.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon : Kirin : Holy Aura :: 

Kirin will be acquired as one of the first four espers you get along and after speaking to Ramuh. This esper will cast what was formerly called life guard on the entire party. Basically it cast regen spell on the whole current team. Kirin will also teach the player a few spells such as cure which heals a small amount of health. Cura will increase the amount of health healed and is the next spell to learn. Regen will be just like the summon spell Holy Aura except it can only be cast on one ally at a time. Poisona will cure poison and finally, scan can analyze an enemies statistics, attributes, and weaknesses.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon : Siren : Lunatic Voice :: 

Lunatic Voice will cast silence with a 136% hit chance on all enemies. If the enemy is immune it will not take effect. You can acquire this esper or summon ability a little after you speak to Ramuh along with 3 other espers. Silence will stop enemies from casting any spell for a duration. You can also learn a few other spells while having Siren equipped. Siren will increase your hit points by +10% when you level up. The spells you can learn are sleep, silence, slow, and fire after defeating enemies with Siren equipped on any character. Note only one character can learn these spells at a time.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon : Cait Sith : Cat Rain ::

This spell has Cait Sith run across the field and hit all enemies on screen with a 128% chance to confuse. If enemies are confused they may attack either your party or each other with any move in their arsenal. You can acquire Cat Sith as one of the first espers in the game right after meeting Ramuh. You will gain +1 to magic for leveling up with Cait Sith magicite. The base summon cost 28 MP ( magic points ) to cast. You will also learn a few spells from using Cait Sith which are confuse, imp, and float.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Final Fantasy VII :

 

 

Buster Sword :

This section will cover some of the classic Final Fantasy games in the series. I don't know how much info I will get but since I am replaying a few of them right now I will try and get my thoughts on as much stuff about those games as possible. Let's start first with which is probably the most famous game in the series Final Fantasy VII. The Buster Sword goes together in great popularity with FF7 as one of the most iconic weapons in the history of video games.

The weapon looks awesome and has been reworked and re imagined by tons of freelance artist as well as the developers at SquareEnix. The Original version was featured with Cloud Strife wielding it on the original PSX cover of the game as he stares off into the Shinra HQ building. A Scene that can also be found in the game. The sword is huge and is beautiful yet simple all at the same time. It is one of the biggest swords in the game and the entire series.

The Weapon is used throughout the entire Midgar City opening of the story in Final Fantasy VII. This is one of the swords you may most likely be holding onto the longest except for the post-game weapons. The sword however doesn't do much good later on in FF7. It is actually the weakest sword in the game! It can only hold 2 slots of materia that can be linked. There are also no special effects with the weapon. This goes for almost every weapon in Final Fantasy VII but for some reason the Buster Sword regardless of power in the game is still one of the most awesome and popular weapons in the series and in the history of video games.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon #1 : Choco/Mog + Fat Chocobo : Deathblow :


This is one of the very first summons you will acquire in the game. To get it you must simply go to the Chocobo Ranch after visiting Kalm and after escaping Midgar. Simply talk or use the action button on the Chocobos that are inside the fence. They will begin dancing oddly and music will play. When it is done you will receive the Choco/Mog summoning materia.

This summon materia is a little bit different compared to most other materia. The major thing to note is that you have a chance to summon the fat chocobo rather than choco and mog. In this case death-blow will be replaced with Fat Chocobo. A Huge fat chocobo will drop down from the sky and crush opponents. One thing I do not know is if fat chocobo is considered to deal wind damage just like the Deathblow summon? Fat Chocobo has  maybe a 5-10% chance to occur at random. If you wish to see it you are going to have to use Choco/Mog summon materia often. It is a fun materia and once again the deathblow deals wind damage. It is great for getting rid of smaller enemies early on in Final Fantasy VII.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon #2 : Shiva : Diamond Dust :

Once you reach the Junon area of the game and talk to some townsfolk head down the southwestern exit. You will probably see a little girl and a dolphin near some water. Talk to the girl and eventually, you will enter into a boss battle. This boss is kind of tough and is named the Bottomswell. Use your Choco/Mog summon as well as high-powered magic.

Have Cloud Strife attack, Tifa if monk or healer using cure and magic attacks. Red XIII or other character casting more magic or a summon ( choco/mog ). Once the boss is defeated you can sleep at the southern house in the town. Afterward, head up into the girl Priscilla's house and she will run down the stairs she will thank Cloud and the crew. Priscilla will also reward the party with the Shiva summon materia. Shiva's attack is great against the obvious fire type enemy. I personally like to use Shiva on a mage type character. The higher the characters magic statistic the more damage Shiva will do in Final Fantasy VII.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summon #3 : Ifrit : Hellfire :

Ifrit's summon can be acquired after the battle with Jenova Birth on the Shinra freight ship. Jenova can be a little difficult so be above or near level 20 with all 3 characters that you bring into the battle. Have two summons at your disposal which should be Choco/Mog and now Shiva. Use them both at the start of the battle. Afterward follow up with all your most powerful attacks. Know that you can also have Yuffie Kisargi at this point in the game. The game indicates this by giving you the wind shear weapon in a chest nearby. She will make this fight easier but it is not necessary. Ifrit deals fire damage and is great against enemies weak to ice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Barret Wallace : Ranged Gunman :: 

Barret will meet up with Cloud right at the start of Final Fantasy VII. He is a typical big bad ass type with a machine gun grafted into one of his arms. Barret seems to be the father of a white girl named Marlene. We later learn that Barret's wife Myrna was killed by the Shinra Corporation as well as his best friend Dyne. However as the plot twist unfolds Barrett must defeat Dyne who is really the father of Marlene.

Barret is a ranged gun fighter and can stay in the back row during battles when using pretty much every weapon in FF7 other than the cannonball arm. If the cannon ball arm is equipped you may want to consider using the Long Range materia. Long Range materia will allow users in the back row to deal more damage as if they were in the front row in combat. Barret is unique and is one of the very few African American characters in the Final Fantasy Series. Also as a note he is one of the first African American characters that I can even remember being in many video games. This among the deep story and character development of Final Fantasy VII and of course Barret's rare gun arm make him one of the most popular or at least well thought of characters in the entire series.

Since characters are rather similar in Final Fantasy VII. The Player must get really creative with building a different character. Barret is one of the ones I find it more difficult to build. However his limit breaks make him shine. Mind Blow is a level one limit break that can or will reduce enemies Magic Points too zero. If i had a gripe it would be that I would have liked to see more original moves on Barret and of course many other characters in the series. It would have been great for overall combat development and fun factor as well as replay value. We do have a deep character here though with choices to be made in-game to see if the player will further not only their relationship as a friend with Barret but their overall knowledge with him as a character in Final Fantasy VII.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

 
Video Guide / Extras

 

 
Justice Monsters Five : Pinball Game

 

I found this to be a very cool addition to an already amazing game. Justice Monsters Five pinball can be played at any Crow's Nest Dinner in the game. Just head over to the pinball machine and start playing. You will get an achievement the first time you do. The game is rather deep for just a mini pinball game in an already huge game. There is 4-5 pinball characters that you can play with. They each have different moves. You attack monsters with you ( the pinball ) and deal damage to them depending on your attack. There also are levels in the game and there may be a reward for completing it. More to come.
Totomostro : [ Monster Battles Mini-Game ]

 

This area can be a little difficult to find. If you head to Palsino street station, you may see a man that you can sell oracle ascension coins to. If you head up the stairs from there and keep going up until you see the Leviathan metal work sculpture you should be in it's vicinity. There will also be a man selling monster horns and the signs are all golden yellow. From there, take the gondola to the arena.

The Arena uses a currency called medals. With medals you can purchase various items from the prizes section. To first get medals you must use some Gil. The best way to get medals is to "bet" on the monsters of your choice. If they win and depending on the odds and your wager you will earn more medals. This is a very luck based section of the game, However since you have the monster horns the game leads to your favor. Use monster horns to increase, strength and other attributes of your monsters. One horn will even be able to heal your allied monsters while they are in battle. The more horns you own the better your chance of winning. The horns cost plenty of Gil, but if you like the prizes it is worth it. ( more to come ). 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Story Analysis ( Major Spoilers )
Omnis Lacrima - Lyrics and Translation 

 

Dormit deus faciunt. Dormit perpetua.
Our master has succumbed to endless sleep.

Dormit domine. Nobis caelum som - Somnus caelum ignosco.
With him sleeps power. Sleeps our beloved sky, begging for forgiveness.

Auroram videre potest?
Can we once again see the dawn?

Deus dormit in voc suci. Liberi ini et sabe en pacum.
Defeated, our master sleeps and calls his children through his dreams.

Mane tempus expergiscendi. Etagen veni omnia dividi.
Behold the day of glory, at last awakened by the whispers of dawn.

Icor possit fabris tori alu yatrae corun dea.
Know that we will fight. We are protected by our goddess.

Mane tempus expergiscendi. Etagen veni omnia divi ex.
Behold the day of glory, awakened. The coming danger divides us all.

Liberi et liberi ignem faciunt.
The children and the children have lit a flame.

Requiensa vide ende! Omnia sangvinem!
For our master to find his peace. All is stained in blood !

Kyrie eleison !
Rest in peace !

Aeterna volutu deus somnus.
Eternal, tormenting in his sleep.
Luna and Noctis :
 

I just made a video talking about this and you can see it on the playlist above if you would like. Personally to summarize my thoughts I was slightly disappointed with the relationship of the love between Noctis and Luna. I feel the only character development the two of them really had was the memory when they were kids. This is just my opinion and  I am over 30 years old if that makes a difference I think it does. I will explain why in a bit, but back to the idea. I could be wrong but I am pretty sure that they only met one time. It always goes back to the one scene with Luna and Noctis in Noctis quarters or vice versa. Being that Luna is oracle she can see the future even as a child apparently and tells Noctis he is chosen. They are eventually to be wed, but once again they have only truly met once. I believe in love at first sight and all, but they are kids and once again only met once ?

Maybe if Luna had been a party member this could have changed things. I felt much more character development between the main crew and even some of the other NPC characters. I guess this is ultimately why Luna was not a party member. However, she is obviously a massive part of the story. So during the scene with her and Ardyn at Altissia I was shocked a bit. It made me think how much of a Psyco Ardyn was. I mean the way he did it, he came out of nowhere and the rest is history. Ardyn is well developed that whole scene is developed well. Luna is even developed decently as a character but the Love between the two is not. I felt as me through Noctis for luna, because she is the Oracle and they were supposed to be wed but it all links back to just one meeting. Still, overall it makes Ardyn a better character and perhaps that was the intention of it all ?
Gentiana :

 

First off, I am expecting that you know who or what Gentiana is at this point. If not read no further as you will spoil the story for yourself. Gentiana is apparently a God or demi-god in Final Fantasy XV. Strange that she is connected to the dog Umbra and Umbra is somehow related to time travel. We will save Umbra for another story analysis. Here are my questions and theories about Gentiana. The first is that I was under the impression that the Imperial army was trying to kill the six to harbor their powers. I was also under the impression they did kill at least 3 of them. This is stated in game on the train near chapter 11 by Gladiolus. Shortly later we see Shiva the glacian frozen over, laying on her stomach in the background. Strange how she is on her stomach and considered dead, perhaps because she has frozen over due to losing power? This to me is some major loop holes especially due to the fact that Gentiana appears shortly after and that is when you receive the Mark of the Glacian and the oracle's trident is handed to you. To patch the loop hole a bit, Ardyn plays with time here. How exactly I don't know but it seems that Shiva can do the same thing, freezing time in a way of sorts. Remember once again Shiva = Gentiana. Gentiana is her human form ?

Interesting theory, when Gentiana freezes Ardyn, is it possible that he could have stayed frozen ? If so and Noctis did not kill him with the Royal Arms would his plan have failed. I would say yes for obvious reasons as the game would end at that scene. However, it is something to note because if Noctis didn't break the ice and kill Ardyn, the game would be virtually a dead end coming to a screeching halt. This is when we learn that Ardyn is immortal and it is actually quite pointless to even fight him. Ardyn lets us know this as well especially later in the game.

As for the time travel, apparently Ardyn was controlling time. I think this was due to Shiva's powers. In real life if everything is frozen time stops in a way. If you create upon that idea you may understand the power of Shiva the Glacian a bit more. If Ardyn killed Shiva or at least had some of her power he would be able to mess with time. Unless of course it was all a diversion of the six by Shiva herself. Regardless it still brings us back to the Major loop hole. If Gentiana/Shiva is dead how did all the scenes after take place? I can even pass the fact that you see her when you summon Shiva in battle, because it is just a game and after all, she "lent" us her power. I can't buy the story scenes much though. It's surely not game breaking but just food for thought.
Luna and Noctis Analysis #2 :

 

After beating the entire game and watching all the final cut-scenes, it comes clear. This is Final Fantasy nothing more nothing less, a beautiful story and game. As the name states it is true to being a Fantasy and Noctis and Luna are shown wed in the very last scene of the ending. The logo of Final Fantasy XV comes up and it is now clear as to why that logo was chosen. Finally noctis is also added into the logo. This was beautiful, to me it added closure and a sense of happiness to a sad ending. SquareEnix gave us the best of both worlds with the ending in my opinion of course ! Basically the latter about Luna and Noctis comes together and in the very end I did feel for the bond between the two. As a fantasy and something beautiful that both men and women alike want,love and or need. A Happy Ending, to live happily ever after, Final Fantasy XV .
Who or What is Ardyn ? 


Even at the end of the game I was still confused as to what Ardyn's relationship or heritage was. I can agree with a statement made by a reddit user. The user stated simply that Ardyn is a very very old Uncle or brother to a previous King of Lucis. The rest is pretty much history for the moment as we know he is evil. Apparently and stated in-game Ardyn had the power to remove demons for other people and was hence praised as a healer or demi-god. Apparently he became tainted by this power and was proved un-worthy by the crystal. Out of pure spite and jealousy he is ambitious to taint the world that has tainted him.
What is Prompto ? [ Thoughts from the web ]

As a child of Niflheim he was branded with the bar code he has in his wrist (perhaps a forced law imposed by the power hungry and guinea pig-needy Empire?). So why is he in Lucis/Insomnia? My theory is that his father got him out of Niflheim for fear of what could happen to him. He "hid" Prompto in Lucis so he could live a relatively-normal life (sans-parents, sadly) and spare him whatever it is the empire did to children to convert them into Magitek Soldiers. It's theorized that in his DLC we'll see him learn of this,thus he knows about his code by the time he's back at the end of Chapter 13. From saga79 on reddit.

I think there's still possibility that Verstael was responsible for making MTs and still cared about his own son enough to send him away. I don't think Prompto was actually infected,
and the bar code might just be planted into him so he could get around the facility freely.I know that sounds a bit stupid...just my guess. They didn't explain all that very well in the game.
Too bad we'll have to wait for his DLC to know for sure. I also heard that in Versus 13 setting,he was sent to Insomnia to befriend with Noctis and to spy on him as a kid. He was supposed to betray the team at some point in the game.This theory made less sense after Brotherhood ep2 came out though. -- Vickychen110 --

t's also possible that his mother got him out and was killed in turn. A popular theory is that his mother-turned-daemon is the Naga that dragged him away in the Ramuh dungeon, hence the lines about her "baby." -- Flash-over --

The Cursed Canvas : ( Did you know ? )

This quest is actually an Easter egg of a boss from Final Fantasy VI. The name of the boss was Lakshmi, part of the character Relm's side quest in the classic role playing game. This was news to me as I never got up to that point in FF6. Thanks goes to Longshanks83 !

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
